URL: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nmANSzThlH2obreYoHrSrifsgVgRUmVIdIaoKtxhTkI/edit?tab=t.0
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/undergraduate-students/

﻿499 Independent Study Form


Students needing an override for a 499 Independent Study may initiate the request via Adobe Sign. Once the form is completed and all required signatures are received, the form will be routed to TPS Undergraduate Advising for processing, and the student will be added to the class.


In order to process the request efficiently, please make sure all fields are completed and detailed information regarding your independent study is provided. Please contact polyadvising@asu.edu, or the advisor you are working with, if you have any questions. 


Eligibility:


Enrollment into a 499 Independent Study class requires approval from a faculty member to first support the class. The course is jointly planned by the student and faculty to identify the score and deliverables of the class. The specific scope of each 499 Independent Study class will vary, based upon the student’s interest and faculty member’s areas of expertise.


Please note: 499 Independent Study classes are not intended to be used to fulfill specific degree requirement classes. These are typically used to fulfill electives or focus area requirements. Faculty supporting the 499 Independent Study class should be within the student’s receptive program.


How to complete the form:


Meet with advising to determine if/how a 499 Independent Study class can apply to degree requirements on your DARS such as electives or focus areas. 


Work with a faculty member to identify the score and deliverables of your project. Think of the form as a syllabus that outlines the objectives of the class and requirements for the grade.


Identify the deadline for all deliverables to be submitted. In most cases, this is the last day of classes.


Initiate the 499 Independent Study Form via Adobe Sign.


Complete the form and hit submit. Make sure you are logged into your MyASU account when filling out the form. From there, enter the name and correct email address of your faculty member, and program chair (see program chair list below).
 
The form is then routed to all individuals for signature. Once complete, the final form will be sent to advising for processing, and the student will be added to the class.




Undergraduate Program Chairs:


Aviation - Greg Files: gfiles@asu.edu 
Engineering - Nadia Kellam: nadia.kellam@asu.edu 
Environmental and Resource Management - Kiril Hristovski: khristo@mainex1.asu.edu
Graphic Information Technology - Tessa Etzioni: tessa.etzioni@asu.edu
Human Systems Engineering - Rob Gray: robgray@asu.edu
Information Technology - Tatiana Walsh: drtatiana.walsh@asu.edu
Technological Entrepreneurship and Management - Steve Cho: steve.cho@asu.edu