URL: https://accounts.google.com/ServiceLogin?service=wise&passive=1209600&osid=1&continue=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mFPrzB6hbx7vu8UccxtEolwdBqR0WQjG/edit&followup=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mFPrzB6hbx7vu8UccxtEolwdBqR0WQjG/edit&ltmpl=docs&ec=GAZAGQ
Parent: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mFPrzB6hbx7vu8UccxtEolwdBqR0WQjG/edit

﻿MS Information Technology
2024-2025 Handbook


CONTENTS
	

MS in Information Technology        4
Purpose of this Handbook        5
Admissions        5
Submission of an Application        5
Application Deadlines        5
Admission and Eligibility        6
ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions        6
Financial Aid        7
Program Requirements        8
Focus area in Information Technology Security        8
Focus area in Information Systems Management        9
Request to change focus area        9
Cohort registration for campus immersion students        9
Computer recommendations for students        10
Culminating Experience Overview        11
Portfolio        11
Applied Project        12
Preparing for the culminating experience and graduation        12
Polytechnic School Overview        13
About the Polytechnic School        13
Graduate Programs        14
Purpose of this Handbook        14
Student Responsibility        14
Diversity and Inclusion Initiative at the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering        15
Facilities and Labs        15
Faculty        15
Graduate Advising        15
Accelerated Bachelor's + Master’s Degree programs        16
Accelerated Bachelor’s + Master’s Probation Policy        16
Academic Standards and Policies        17
Grades        17
Academic Performance Standards        18
Evaluation of Academic Performance Requirements        18
Grade Grievance Appeal Policy        20
Plan of Study (iPOS)        20
Time Limit for Degree Completion        20
Continuous Enrollment Policy        20
Leave of Absence Policy        21
Graduate College Policies and Procedures        21
Policy on Maximum Course Load        21
Internships        22
Applying for Graduation        22
Culminating Experience Definitions - Master’s Degrees        23
Portfolio        23
Written Comprehensive Exam        23
Capstone        23
Applied Project        23
Thesis        24
General ASU Information        25
Academic Calendar        25
Student Code of Conduct        25
Prohibition Against Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation        25
Academic Integrity        25
Department and University Resources        26
Academics and Professional Development        26
Student Support Services        26
Business and Finance Services        26
Contact Information        26
Appendix A        27
Instructions for the Master of Science in Information Technology Portfolio        28
Purpose of the Portfolio        28
Portfolio Format        28
Submission Instructions        29
Deadlines for Submission        29
Evaluation        30
Completion        30
Process for Appeal        30




MS in Information Technology
	Information Technology is a multidisciplinary approach which incorporates technology, people, and processes to innovate and implement information systems that strengthen business and government performance and provide value to our communities and environments. 


The MS Information Technology program provides courses to build competencies to innovate reliable, secure communications networks for enterprises, design and implement secure cloud systems for customers, and leverage data models and data analytics for business leaders. 


Students develop the ability to conceptualize, organize and realize information technology projects that meet the needs of users within an organizational or societal context. Students engage in theoretical and hands-on approaches to learn the critical components of information technology.  


The MS Information Technology program has two focus area options: Information Technology Security and Information Systems Management. Students are admitted to a specific focus area which will define the coursework towards degree completion. Program course work encompasses core technologies and a specialization area with a culminating project experience.


Information Technology Security focuses on leveraging analytical and critical thinking to plan and execute security measures to protect the assets of an organization from infiltration and cyberattacks.
Students will address cybersecurity strategic issues of risk management, policies, human factors, regulations, and governance that impacts an organization’s digital transformation readiness.


Information Systems Management focuses on integrating multi-dimensional concepts to create viable data-driven technology solutions. Students will address managing complex information systems by using data governance, data analytics, natural language processing, artificial intelligence, and machine learning.


MS Information Technology graduates are well-qualified for careers in information technology management and operations. The degree bridges the gap between business needs and technology solutions.  Graduates will synthesize knowledge of diverse areas of technology and influence the future of information technology.












Purpose of this Handbook


The purpose of this handbook is to provide guidance and information related to admission, degree requirements, and general policies and procedures for graduate students in the Polytechnic School. Students must adhere to policies of both the Polytechnic School and the Graduate College. Policies and this handbook are subject to change at any time; students will be notified.
Admissions


Admission to the MS Information Technology program requires the completion of all general admission requirements and procedures set forth by the Office of Graduate Admission Services. For general information on applications, deadlines, international requirements, application requirements, and other information, please visit Graduate Admission Services. Prior to submitting an application to Graduate Admission Services, applicants should review the information provided in this handbook regarding the degree program, including specific application requirements and deadlines.


Submission of an Application


For admission information and procedures, review the How and When to Apply For Graduate Admission website. Applications for all graduate degree programs and non-degree status must be submitted via the application website. 


Admitted students who are unable to start their programs in their admitted term can request to defer their start to the next admissible semester. Students may submit a request to defer through their MyASU. 


Application Deadlines 


The dates noted are priority deadlines for submitting a complete application. Applications received after this date may still be considered but are not guaranteed to be evaluated for the semester of application.
                Polytechnic Campus Priority Deadlines 
Fall semester (August)                 March 1
Spring semester (January)                August 1


ASU Online Priority Deadlines
Fall semester (August)                 July 20
Spring semester (January)                December 1
Summer semester (May)                March 1






Admission and Eligibility 


Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:


* Minimum of a bachelor’s degree in information technology, computer science, applied computing, computer engineering, or a closely-related field, from a regionally accredited college or university.
* Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program or in the last 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
* Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S. institution, or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
* Applicants with grades below the minimum level may be considered for provisional admission if there is strong evidence suggesting the potential of outstanding performance in the Polytechnic School graduate program. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education may also be considered.


A complete MS Information Technology program application includes the following items:


* An online Graduate Admission application, including attachments of the following documents:
   * A professional resume
   * A statement of purpose
* Transcripts from each college and/or university attended
   * Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded directly to the online application. Official transcripts will be required if admitted.
* International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements, as defined by Graduate Admission Services. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, or PTE score requirements, as international applications will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.


Academic units submit recommendations regarding admission decisions to Graduate Admission Services; only the Dean of Graduate Admission can make formal offers of admission. Applicants are able to monitor the status of their application through My ASU. If admitted, the formal letter of admission can be downloaded from My ASU. If denied admission, letters are sent via email to the address on record.


ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions


ASU undergraduate students who meet the eligibility criteria for specific participating master’s degree programs will receive an offer for ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions in their final undergraduate semester. 


Students who accept an ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions offer will be automatically admitted to one selected ASU graduate degree program without submitting a graduate admission application or supplemental materials. 


Financial Aid


Several resources are available to assist students in understanding how to finance a graduate degree. We recommend visiting Pay for your Graduate Education via Graduate College, and Paying for College via Financial Aid and Scholarship Services. For an estimated cost of enrollment, visit: Standard Cost of Attendance. For more information on funding opportunities, please visit: TPS Graduate Student Funding Opportunities.  




























































Program Requirements
	



Focus area in Information Technology Security


The MS in Information Technology with a focus in information technology security requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Students will be required to follow the specific program outline for their admitted focus area: 


Required Core Courses (12 credit hours) 
IFT 510 Principles of Computer and Information Technology Architecture (3)
IFT 520 Advanced Information Systems Security (3)
IFT 530 Advanced Database Management Systems (3)
IFT 540 Information Systems Development (3)


Focus Area Courses (12 credit hours) 
        IFT 523 Network Forensics (3) *prerequisite IFT 520
        IFT 543 Security Compliance (3) 
IFT 560 Cloud Architecture (3) *pre- or corequisite IFT 510
        IFT 562 Cloud Security and Operation (3) *prerequisite  IFT 560


Electives (3-6 credits)
IFT 500-level course or approved CSE, GIT, OMT, SER, STP, or TEM 500 level course. 
                       
Approved non-IFT Electives 
A maximum of 6 credits outside of the IFT prefix can apply towards the MS IT program as an elective course 


Culminating Experience (0-3 credit hours)
        Portfolio (0 credits)
        IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits)
















Focus area in Information Systems Management


The MS in Information Technology with a focus in information systems management requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Students will be required to follow the specific program outline for their admitted focus area:


Required Core Courses (12 credit hours) 
IFT 510 Principles of Computer and Information Technology Architecture (3)
IFT 520 Advanced Information Systems Security (3)
IFT 530 Advanced Database Management Systems (3)
IFT 540 Information Systems Development (3)


Focus Area Courses (12 credit hours) 
        IFT 511 Analyzing Big Data (3) 
        IFT 512 Advanced Analytics for Big Data/AI (3) *prerequisite IFT 511
IFT 533 Data Visualization & Reporting (3)
        IFT 536 Natural Language Processing (3)


Electives (3-6 credits)
IFT 500-level course or approved CSE, GIT, OMT, SER, STP, or TEM 500 level course. 
                       
Approved non-IFT Electives 
A maximum of 6 credits outside of the IFT prefix can apply towards the MS IT program as an elective course 


Culminating Experience (0-3 credit hours)
        Portfolio (0 credits)
        IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits)


Deficiencies


Upon admission, a student may be assigned one or more deficiency courses to complete in addition
to the 30 credit hour requirement for the MS IT program. The three possible deficiency courses are:


IFT 300 Intermediate Database Management Systems (3)
IFT 366 TCP/IP and Routing (3)


Students should refer to their admit letter to verify any assigned deficiencies. Deficiencies must be
completed by the end of the first year with a grade of B or better, unless otherwise noted. It is highly
encouraged that deficiencies are taken within the first semester. Campus students will be automatically enrolled into their deficiency course in their first semester as part of their cohort. 


Students who believe they have met their deficiency through coursework may enroll in the test-out exam. Specific information regarding the exam process will be shared with admitted
students.
After the test-out exam deadlines, no further requests will be considered. Information on the exam will be sent shortly after admission to the program from the graduate
advising office. 


Request to change focus area


A student’s admitted focus area will define the coursework for degree completion. However, if a student would like to request to change their focus area, they may do so by contacting their graduate advisor. A change in focus area may result in additional coursework and a department review to identify any potential deficiencies. Approval of the request is not guaranteed.


Cohort registration for campus immersion students 


Campus immersion students are members of a cohort for their respective admission terms and will be assigned specific courses for enrollment in their first year. Students should follow all instructions as part of the Polytechnic School welcome packet to complete registration steps. Requests for deviation from first semester coursework will not be accepted. Students will have the ability to select elective courses in their second year.


Computer recommendations for students 


The Master of Science in Information Technology program recommends the following specifications 
in laptop computers: 
* CPU: Any modem (2015+) x64 capable quad core cpu or better
* RAM: 16GB RAM or more
* Disk Size: 512GB of available fast storage (e.g. ssd) or more
* MacBook is not recommended 
































Culminating Experience Overview
	Portfolio


This is the default option for all students enrolled in the MS Information Technology program. To complete the MS IT degree under these requirements, a student must complete a total of 30 credit hours of approved coursework and, in the semester the student intends to graduate, submit a portfolio to the Graduate Program Chair within the submission window noted below. 


The portfolio must elucidate the quality of the education that the student has received through the course of study. The purpose of the portfolio is to demonstrate a high level of mastery of the principles and practice of IT through a compilation of work that the student has completed through the course of their graduate study. 


All portfolios must describe three notable projects from three different courses  or academic accomplishments that have been completed through the course of graduate study. The portfolio must illustrate the evolution and advancement of technical expertise and mastery of the field of information technology achieved by the student.


The portfolio must include submission of the three projects or documentation of the accomplishments. The portfolio is a professional document that is written in APA style (minimum of 25 page/maximum of 30 pages) and will be evaluated for technical content and the quality of writing and presentation.  


Detailed requirements and the evaluation rubric that will be used to grade the portfolio are given in the appendix of this document.  


The required dates for submission of the portfolio are given in the table below:


Graduation Semester
	Submission window
	Resubmission (if required)
	Spring
	March 1 to 30
	Before April 30
	Summer
	June 1 to 30
	Before August 7
	Fall
	October 1 to 30
	Before December 7
	________________




Applied Project


The applied project (3 credit course) is carried out under the supervision of a professor of the Information Technology Program who is the faculty chair. The faculty chair is the faculty advisor for the project. The applied project committee consists only of the faculty chair.  


The faculty chair will advise, supervise, assess the applied project, and assign the final grade. Credit is earned when the faculty chair grades the applied project and a grade of B or better is awarded


Students desiring to conduct an applied project must first obtain the approval of a professor to be the faculty chair.  Students are not assigned a faculty chair.  Students must take initiative to contact a professor working in their area of interest. This is recommended to be done before the end of the second semester (by +1 year for accelerated students). Enrollment in the applied project is typically in the last semester of the graduate program. 


The applied project highlights the knowledge and skills students have developed during their program. The applied project includes the implementation of an information technology solution, written paper and oral presentation. Students are encouraged to tackle real-world challenges, gaining valuable experience that will benefit them in their future careers. 


The student is required to conduct an oral presentation of the applied project to the faculty chair, program chair and faculty. The presentation is to discuss the implementation and results of the project. This presentation will be open to all graduate students.
  
The student and the faculty chair work together to identify goals that would signify a successful completion of the student obligation in the development of the applied project. A schedule and measurable milestones are used to help assess the overall progress and outcomes. 


Applied projects are not required to be connected with industry mentors.  If the student is pursuing an industry-based project, the faculty chair for the project will ask the industry mentor for their comments regarding whether the student met expectations in the development of the applied project. 


Preparing for the culminating experience and graduation 
In order to ensure accurate and timely communication of the culminating experience from academic and faculty advising, students should apply for graduation by the deadline in which they intend to graduate and review the iPOS for accuracy. The iPOS must be updated to reflect the student’s intended plans for graduation. 




Polytechnic School Overview
	About the Polytechnic School
The Polytechnic School is making a new higher education experience, one that focuses on learning through making things and solving real-world challenges through collaboration. At the Polytechnic School, we believe how you learn and teach is as important as what you learn and teach. We are committed and contributing to ASU’s vision of the New American University – an institution that is committed to excellence, access, and impact.


The Polytechnic School is located in Mesa, which is the state’s third-largest city and part of the Greater Phoenix area. The 600-acre ASU Polytechnic campus is built in a beautiful desert arboretum and is home to more than 6,000 students studying in undergraduate and graduate majors. The Polytechnic School is home to some of the most innovative engineering and technology programs in the country and some of the most advanced learning laboratories available to students on any university campus.


The programs thrive under the guidance of more than 100 outstanding faculty members with deep expertise in many of the most important challenges that society faces. 


Visit the Polytechnic School website at poly.engineering.asu.edu. For more in-depth information about the programs offered through the Polytechnic School as well as the application process and other pertinent information, you are encouraged to explore the overview of the graduate programs.




























Graduate Programs
The Polytechnic School’s graduate students learn in an environment that blends management, applied sciences, and engineering and technology fields to create applications, systems, and solutions that meet real-world needs. We engage in research that matters. As part of the Polytechnic School masters programs, applied projects, theses, and research are degree components and complement students’ theoretical and practical understanding. The Polytechnic School doctoral programs include separate degree components, all of which are outlined in each program’s handbook.


Masters Degrees
Aviation Management and Human Factors, MSTech in Technology         
Clean Energy Systems, MS 
Data Science, Analytics and Engineering (Human-Centered Applications), MS
Engineering, MS 
Environmental and Resource Management, MS
Environmental and Resource Management (Water Management), MS
Graphic Information Technology, MS 
Human Systems Engineering, MS
Human Systems Engineering (Aviation Human Factors), MS
Human Systems Engineering (Health Systems), MS
Human Systems Engineering (Intelligent Systems), MS
Human Systems Engineering (User Experience Research), MS 
Information Technology, MS         
Management of Technology, MSTech in Technology         
User Experience, MS


Doctoral Degrees
Engineering Education Systems and Design, Ph.D.
Human Systems Engineering, Ph.D.
Information Technology, DIT
Purpose of this Handbook
The purpose of this handbook is to provide guidance and information related to admission, degree requirements, and general policies and procedures for graduate students in the Polytechnic School. Students must adhere to policies of both the Polytechnic School and the Graduate College. Policies and this handbook are subject to change at any time; students will be notified.
Student Responsibility
Graduate students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with all university and graduate policies and procedures as well as applicable deadlines. Each student should also communicate directly with their academic unit to be clear on its expectations for degree completion. Graduate students are responsible for frequently checking their My ASU account and asu.edu email for the most up-to-date information regarding their status, holds, items to attend to, and other important information.
Diversity and Inclusion Initiative at the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering
In January 2019, the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering launched a new initiative focusing on diversity and inclusion — core values to the Fulton Schools and ASU, as exemplified in the university charter. This initiative is called DII@FSE.


Our DII@FSE task force has articulated a vision to follow strategies and practices that support environments where individuals feel included, valued, and respected and where different kinds of people can succeed.


The DII@FSE has submitted a proposal to the American Society for Engineering Education’s (ASEE) Diversity Recognition Program. That proposal was awarded bronze status (the highest entry status a university can be awarded).  Next steps for the initiative will be working together to realize the plan’s goals.
Goals
1. Create and maintain a student body and workforce across the Fulton Schools that is diverse in multiple dimensions and inclusive for all.
2. Empower faculty, staff, students, and academic associates at the Fulton Schools to embrace the core values and practice of diversity, equity, and inclusion.
3. Be a global leader in diversity, equity, and inclusion in engineering.
Facilities and Labs
The core facilities, laboratories, and centers in the Polytechnic School provide the ideal environments for teaching, research, and discovery. State-of-the-art equipment and technologies help students increase their knowledge and experience and provide support for the use-inspired research conducted by the school’s faculty and students. Learn more by visiting: Labs and Facilities.
Faculty
Faculty members have significant expertise in many of the most important challenges that society faces. Many members of the faculty bring considerable industry experience to bear on their teaching and research. To learn more about the faculty, you may refer to the Polytechnic School Directory.
Graduate Advising
Graduate student advising is located on the Polytechnic campus in Sutton Hall on the second floor. For more information about the Polytechnic School graduate programs or the policies in this handbook, contact the graduate advising office at polygrad@asu.edu or 480-727-1874.
Accelerated Bachelor's + Master’s Degree programs
The Polytechnic School offers accelerated BS/MS and BSE/MS programs for students currently enrolled in an approved undergraduate program. This allows students to graduate with both degrees within five years of full-time coursework.
If you are interested to see if your program is part of the accelerated program offerings, visit Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs and contact the Polytechnic School Graduate Advising office at polygrad@asu.edu to discuss your options. Please note that in addition to credit hour requirements, applicants must also have a cumulative ASU GPA of 3.20 or higher at the time of application to be considered. Admission into the accelerated programs is not guaranteed and an application is required to be considered.
Accelerated Bachelor’s + Master’s Probation Policy
Students in the Polytechnic School accelerated bachelor/masters programs are required to have/maintain a minimum 3.2 cumulative undergraduate ASU GPA on a 4.0 scale, at the time of the Accelerated Master’s Program agreement. In addition, students in the accelerated bachelor/masters programs are also required to maintain a 3.0 GPA for all coursework on the graduate plan of study (including shared 400-level courses) and all 500-level coursework.
Shared coursework is defined as the courses being applied toward the bachelor's degree and also being utilized for credit in the master's program. Shared courses are identified on the Accelerated Master’s Program Agreement that must be completed prior to starting the accelerated bachelor/master program.
Students in the accelerated program who do not maintain a 3.0 minimum GPA in their shared coursework will be placed on graduate probation upon entering the master’s degree program. Students in this situation will be notified of their probation status and the steps needed to lift the probation.


























Academic Standards and Policies 
	Grades
To be eligible for graduation and the completion of a graduate degree, a student must achieve a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or better in three different grade point average calculations. The three different grade point averages that are considered by Graduate College and the Polytechnic School are as follows: (1) the grade point average in all courses numbered 500 or higher that appear on the transcript, except those that were listed as deficiencies in the original letter of admission, (2) the grade point average in all coursework that appears on the approved program of study, and (3) the grade point average in all coursework taken at ASU post-baccalaureate.
Transfer credits are not calculated on the Plan of Study (iPOS) GPA or the Graduate GPA. Courses with grades of “D” (1.00) and “E” (0.00) cannot appear on the iPOS but will be included when calculating the Graduate GPA. Courses with an “I” grade cannot appear on the iPOS.
A student who is not progressing satisfactorily toward a degree will be withdrawn from the program by the Dean of the Graduate College upon recommendation by the Fulton Schools of Engineering Dean’s office. The policy of the Polytechnic School for academic probation and dismissal of graduate students is outlined below.
Satisfactory progress is defined by the quality of the student’s work, that it does not have any academic and progress probationary issues, and that the student is meeting all requirements and/or milestones applicable to their program. Specifically for Doctoral students, this also includes the successful completion of the qualifying and comprehensive exams, as determined by their program. In addition to the probationary rules, satisfactory progress includes appropriate communication each semester with the student’s Committee Chair regarding their progress, if applicable.
Students in the accelerated bachelor/master’s degree programs will have separate requirements to meet while completing their undergraduate degree. See the accelerated bachelor’s + master’s degree program section above for more information. Once students are in the graduate portion of the program (and have completed their undergraduate degree), they must meet the graduate academic expectations outlined in this section.










Academic Performance Standards
To meet the Polytechnic School academic performance requirements, all students admitted to a graduate degree program in the Polytechnic School must adhere to all of the following:
* All students admitted to a graduate degree program in the Polytechnic School, either on regular or provisional admission status, must maintain a 3.0 or higher grade point average (GPA) in:
1.   All work taken for graduate credit (courses numbered 500 or higher),
2.   Coursework in the student’s approved plan of study (iPOS), and
3.   All coursework taken at ASU (overall GPA) post-baccalaureate.
* Earn a “C” or better in all iPOS (plan of study) courses. Grades of “W” and “I” are not acceptable on the iPOS and may be considered a lack of satisfactory progress if more than one occurrence occurs during the student’s graduate program of study. Programs may invoke a higher standard, e.g., no courses with a C may be included on the iPOS.
* Meet the terms of the ASU Graduate College satisfactory progress policies as outlined at: ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures.
Evaluation of Academic Performance Requirements
After each semester, the academic unit reviews students’ files for satisfactory progress toward completion of the degree. All students are placed under one of the three categories:
* Satisfactory Progress means that the student does not have any academic and progress probationary issues. In addition to the probationary rules, satisfactory progress includes appropriate communication each semester with the student’s Committee Chair regarding their progress, if applicable.
 
* Academic Probation pertains to grades that fall below those required by Program and University policies, including graduation requirements. The following are notices/letters the student will receive if one of these pertains to their academics:
   * Grade Point Average
>        GPA below 3.0 in approved iPOS courses
>        Overall post-baccalaureate GPA below 3.0
>        Overall graduate (500 level or above) GPA below 3.0
Students placed on academic probation will have nine (9) credits or one year, whichever comes first, to meet GPA requirements as outlined above. Students placed on academic probation for Satisfactory Academic Progress will be provided a deadline within their probationary notice in which the requirements are to be met.
A student will be recommended for Dismissal from the program if they fail to meet the probationary standards outlined in their probationary letter. The student will receive a letter from the Polytechnic School explaining the reasons for the recommendation for dismissal. The student will have five (5) business days from the date of the letter to appeal the decision. The department’s Graduate Affairs Committee (GAC) will review the appeal and will make the necessary recommendation. The GAC Chair, on behalf of the GAC, will provide a written explanation of the outcome of the appeal.
* If the outcome is favorable, the student will have to meet all the outlined requirements at the end of the specified period. The student will be required to sign an agreement acknowledging the recommendations of the GAC and the consequences if the agreements are not met.
* If the GAC recommends that the appeal is not granted in favor of the student, the GAC Chair, on behalf of the GAC, will recommend to the Fulton Schools of Engineering (FSE) Dean’s Office to withdraw the student from the graduate program. The student’s appeal will then be reviewed by the FSE Academic Standards Committee, which reviews the student’s case and makes the final recommendation on behalf of the FSE Dean’s Office and the department. If the appeal is not granted in favor of the student, the Fulton Schools of Engineering Dean’s Office will recommend to the Graduate College to withdraw the student from the graduate program. Please refer to the Graduate College catalog for policies and procedures or contact the graduate advisor in the Polytechnic School with further questions. 
* A student will be recommended for Dismissal from the program if they fail to meet the provisional admission requirements outlined within their admission letter. The student will receive a notice from the Polytechnic School explaining the reasons for the recommendation for dismissal. The dismissal notice will be submitted to the ASU Graduate College for processing. Provisional admits are unable to appeal if they fail to meet the requirements outlined within the standards of their admission.
* A student will be recommended for Dismissal from the program if they fail to meet the deficiency admission requirements outlined within their admission letter. The student will receive a letter from the Polytechnic School explaining the reasons for the recommendation for dismissal. The dismissal notice will be submitted to the ASU Graduate College for processing. Students not meeting the admission requirements of their deficiency as outlined in their admission letter are granted the ability to appeal and follow the process noted above. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the dismissal notice will be submitted to the ASU Graduate College for processing.
   * Deficiency Course(s)
      * Lack of progress toward completion of required deficiencies as listed on the admission letter
      *  Received a “D” or “E” in a required deficiency course or in a course at the 400 level or above
      * Deficiency GPA below 3.0
Grade Grievance Appeal Policy 
The grade grievance appeal policy must be followed by any student seeking to appeal a final course grade. Student grade grievance appeals must be processed, by commencement, in the regular semester immediately following the issuance of the grade in dispute. This process does not address academic integrity violations, faculty misconduct, or discrimination. It is university policy that students filing grade grievances and those who are witnesses are protected from retaliation. 
The Fulton Schools of Engineering follow the University policy for student appeal procedures on grades. Students may also view the informal and formal steps outlined in the Grade Grievance Appeal Policy. 
Plan of Study (iPOS)
The Plan of Study (iPOS) functions as a contract between the student, the academic unit, and the Graduate College. The iPOS contains certain degree requirements such as core and elective coursework as well as a culminating experience, which must be included in the iPOS before it can be approved. Students should submit an iPOS after registering for their second semester in the program. Students must submit an iPOS before the beginning of their second semester of their degree program. A student is not eligible to schedule the comprehensive examination without an approved iPOS. Students may not register for applied project (593), thesis (599), internship (584), or dissertation credit (799) until their iPOS is submitted and approved. 
A student can access the iPOS by visiting My ASU > My Programs > iPOS > Graduate Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS). Please reference our iPOS Overview for in-depth information on what must be included on the iPOS.
Time Limit for Degree Completion
All work toward a master’s degree must be completed within six consecutive years. Doctoral students must complete all program requirements within a ten-year period. The time period begins with the semester and year of admission to the program. Graduate courses taken prior to admission that are included in the Plan of Study must have been completed within three years of the semester and year of admission to the program. See the ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures for more information.
Continuous Enrollment Policy
Once admitted to a graduate degree program, students must be registered for a minimum of one credit hour of graduate-level coursework (not audit) during each fall and spring semester of their graduate education. Summer registration is required for students taking examinations, completing culminating experiences, conducting a doctoral prospectus, defending theses or dissertations, or graduating from the degree program in that semester. This credit must appear on the Plan of Study or must be an appropriate graduate-level course (e.g. 595, Continuing Registration). Courses with grades of “W” and “X” are not considered valid registration for continuous enrollment purposes.
Students who have completed all necessary coursework but still need to complete their culminating experience can request an override for 595 Continuing Registration for 1 credit hour to maintain active status in their program. First term requests are sent to the student’s committee chair to approve and verify that the student is making adequate progress. If a second term request is necessary, along with the override request the student must submit a timeline of remaining requirements to verify how they plan to complete the program in that semester.
Leave of Absence Policy
Students planning to discontinue enrollment for a semester or more must request approval for a leave of absence through the Plan of Study (iPOS) petition titled Leave of Absence Request. The Graduate College allows for a leave of absence for a maximum of two semesters during a student’s entire program. A petition for a leave of absence may be submitted through a student’s interactive plan of study and must be approved by the Graduate College. This request must be submitted and approved before the start of the semester of the anticipated absence.
An approved leave of absence will enable students to re-enter their program without reapplying to the university and the graduate program. Students who do not enroll for a fall or spring semester and are not on an approved Leave of Absence are considered withdrawn from the university under the assumption that they have decided to discontinue their program. A student removed for this reason may reapply for admission to resume their degree program; the application will be considered along with all other new applications to the degree program.
A student with a Graduate College-approved Leave of Absence is not required to pay tuition and/or fees, but in turn is not permitted to place any demands on university faculty or use any university resources. See the ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures for more information.
Graduate College Policies and Procedures
All graduate students are expected to read, understand, and meet the terms of the ASU Graduate College Policies and Procedures handbook as outlined at: ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures.
Policy on Maximum Course Load
Registration in nine (9) credits is considered a full-time load for graduate students at ASU, and graduate students in the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering are restricted to a maximum of 12 credits per semester, with the exception of the MS Information Technology program, which are restricted to 11 credits per semester. Overrides to register for more than 12 credits require the approval of the student’s committee chair and Graduate Program Chair and will be granted only in exceptional cases. Requests to register for more than 15 credits will not be supported. 
Internships
Polytechnic School graduate students can request to take an internship as a 584-course option for academic credit if an approved and eligible internship is obtained. Internship is not a requirement for graduate programs within The Polytechnic School but can be added as a planned option to the graduate plan of study. International students can apply for curricular practical training (CPT) if eligible to do so. No more than 3 credits of internship coursework can be used. The 3 credits can be divided between a maximum of two semesters for two different internship opportunities. For more information on internships, policies, and the application process, please visit: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/internships/. 
Applying for Graduation
Graduate students should become familiar with the process of applying for graduation to ensure the graduation application is submitted by the deadline of the graduating semester. The University has specific deadlines each semester for submitting the Graduation application. To view the specific deadlines for future terms, log into MyASU and click on the Graduation tab. Please also be sure to review the Graduate College graduation deadlines and procedures as well. All students must have an approved and up-to-date iPOS on file in order to apply for graduation.
















































Culminating Experience Definitions - Master’s Degrees
	Below is an overview of the culminating experience options offered within the Polytechnic School’s graduate programs. Culminating experience options vary by program.
Portfolio
The portfolio is a highlight of three major accomplishments from the master's program and may include projects, papers, and exams. Portfolio submission includes a resume, and reflection of graduate program accomplishments with the supporting assignments/ projects included and is reviewed by the program chair for consistency in grading. There are specific submission timeframes (Spring - March/ Summer - June/ Fall - October) noted in the program section for eligible programs.
A cover page needs to be included describing what courses the projects were carried out in, and why they were selected for inclusion in the Portfolio by the student. The Committee Chair and/or the Graduate Program Chair will be solely responsible for judging the quality of the portfolio and determining if it is satisfactory to serve as the required culminating event for the degree.
Written Comprehensive Exam
The written comprehensive exam is coordinated by the Graduate Program Chair who leads the administration of the comprehensive exam to the students in their final semester. Support is available from advising if an on-campus comprehensive exam is required. The exam takes place in the last six weeks of the semester. Grading is pass/fail. If a student fails, the student may petition to take the comprehensive exam one more time in a future term.
Capstone
The capstone is the only culminating experience option that has a class time/date associated with it. Within the course, students will follow the syllabus and requirements outlined by the instructor. Credit is earned when a grade of B or better is awarded. 
Applied Project
The applied project is carried out under the supervision of a faculty member, typically a member of the program’s graduate faculty. Students are not assigned a faculty advisor. Students must take the initiative to contact a faculty member working in their area of interest. Students desiring to conduct an applied project must first obtain the approval of a faculty member to work with them on the project. This is recommended to be done before the end of the second semester (by +1 year for accelerated students). Enrollment in the applied project is in the last semester of the graduate program. An exception to this is for MS Human Systems Engineering as six credits/two semesters of enrollment are required. Applied projects are not required to be connected with industry. Applied projects are not eligible for CPT.
At completion of the applied project, a written document is required. The document is less involved than a thesis, is not expected to be published, and is more generalizable in comparison to the thesis, providing flexibility in the final format. In all cases, the student must prepare and present the applied project to the faculty advisor and discuss the implementation and results of their project. This presentation will be open to all graduate students.
Credit is earned when the faculty advisor approves the written report and oral presentation and a grade of B or better is awarded. For students carrying out an applied project, the faculty chair is the faculty advisor for the project. The applied project committee consists only of the faculty chair. A grade of ‘Y’ is not considered satisfactory completion of the course by ASU Graduate College. 
Thesis
Thesis is a large research commitment, recommended for those wanting to pursue a PhD or a career focused in research. Work involves a new research area or extension of previous research, taking a new approach to a topic. The thesis topic can be initiated by either the student or the faculty advisor.  Students must adhere to Graduate College (GC) policies, formatting requirements, and deadlines. The final document is published through ProQuest through the GC processes.
Students are not assigned a faculty advisor. Students must take the initiative to contact a faculty member working in their area of interest. This should be done as soon as possible, but no later than the second semester of study. For accelerated Bachelor’s/Master’s students, the faculty advisor should be identified by the end of the last semester of the bachelor’s degree completion. Enrollment in 599 must be in the last two semesters of the program.
Thesis grading is pass/fail. Students may receive a ‘Pass with minor or major revisions’ post-defense, but the ultimate grade will be pass/fail. Students must have a pass/fail form submitted to Graduate College within 10 days of defense, and as soon as any required revisions are accepted by the committee. GC deadlines should be adhered to closely. The committee must consist of three faculty (one chair, two members or two co-chairs, one member) approved by the Graduate Program Chair and Graduate College and must consist of no less than 50% of faculty from the department, including the chair or one co-chair. The thesis defense will be open to all graduate students and faculty.




















General ASU Information
	Academic Calendar
Students are responsible for meeting all deadlines set within the ASU Academic Calendar. The calendar can be found at students.asu.edu/academic-calendar.
Student Code of Conduct
The aim of education is the intellectual, personal, social, and ethical development of the individual. The educational process is ideally conducted in an environment that encourages reasoned discourse, intellectual honesty, openness to constructive change, and respect for the rights of all individuals. Self-discipline and respect for the rights of others in the university community are necessary for the fulfillment of such goals. The Student Code of Conduct is designed to promote this environment at Arizona State University.
The Student Code of Conduct sets forth the standards of conduct expected of students who choose to join the university community. Students who violate these standards will be subject to disciplinary sanctions in order to promote their own personal development, to protect the university community, and to maintain order and stability on campus.
All students are expected to adhere to the ABOR Student Code of Conduct.
Prohibition Against Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation
ASU prohibits all forms of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  To view ASU’s policy please see https://www.asu.edu/aad/manuals/acd/acd401.html.
Title IX protects individuals from discrimination based on sex in any educational program or activity operated by recipients of federal financial assistance. As required by Title IX, ASU does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that we operate, including in admission and employment. Inquiries concerning the application of Title IX may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator or to the U.S. Department of Education, Assistant Secretary, or both.  Contact titleixcoordinator@asu.edu or 480-965-0696 for more information.  Office located at 1120 S. Cady Mall, INTDSB 284. For information on making a report please go to www.asu.edu/reportit/.
Academic Integrity
The highest standards of academic integrity and compliance with the university’s Student Code of Conduct are expected of all graduate students in academic coursework and research activities. The failure of any graduate student to uphold these standards may result in serious consequences, including suspension or expulsion from the university and/or other sanctions as specified in the academic integrity policies of the Polytechnic School as well as the University.
Violations of academic integrity include, but are not limited to: cheating, fabrication of data, tampering, plagiarism, or aiding and/or facilitating such activities. At the graduate level, it is expected that students are familiar with these issues and take personal responsibility for their work. It is the student’s responsibility to become familiar with the academic integrity policies of the university and Graduate College.
As an ASU graduate student, it is your responsibility to help protect yourself and the ASU community from academic and research integrity violations. Review best practices for maintaining academic and research integrity at ASU to familiarize yourself with standards and resources.
Department and University Resources
Academics and Professional Development
* Academic Integrity Policy
* ASU libraries
* Career Centers (both ASU and Fulton Schools of Engineering)
* Graduate and Professional Student Association
* FSE student resources
* Professional development
* Writing Center
Student Support Services
* Counseling
* Student Accessibility and Inclusive Learning
* Graduate Wellness Resources
   * 10 Best Practices in Graduate Student Wellbeing
* Health
* Housing
* International Student Services
   * FSE International Student Resources
* Veterans 
Business and Finance Services
* ASU ID cards
* ASU bookstore
* Parking and Transit
* Student accounts
Contact Information
For more information about the Polytechnic School graduate programs or the policies in this handbook, contact the graduate advising office at polygrad@asu.edu or 480-727-1874.
Appendix A 
	________________




Instructions for the Master of Science in Information Technology Portfolio
	

Purpose of the Portfolio
The purpose of the portfolio is to demonstrate a high level of mastery of the principles and practice of Information Technology topics through a compilation of work that you have completed during the course of your graduate study. While the specific details will depend on your focus area, all portfolios must describe three notable projects that you have completed during your graduate study. The projects will illustrate the evolution and advancement of your technical expertise and mastery of your focus area in Information Technology.
Portfolio Format
The portfolio must include submission of the three notable projects from three different courses that you achieved during your graduate experience. The portfolio is a professional document that is written in APA style and will be evaluated for technical content and the quality of writing and presentation. The length of the document is minimum of 25 pages/maximum of 30 pages, excluding cover page, table of contents, and references.
The required format of the portfolio:
1. Cover page        
2. Table of Contents
3. Resume:  An up-to-date resume reflecting your accomplishments (no more than two pages)
4. Reflection:  A reflection on your graduate experience: What is your focus area? What was your favorite class? What are your academic accomplishments? What school organizations/clubs/events that you participated in? What technology position are you posting for? Do you feel that the Masters program has prepared you for your current or future technology career? Would you like to be added to the Information Technology alum group? Provide your non-school email. Typically this section is three pages.
5. Overview:  A brief description of the three notable projects that you achieved during your graduate experience and why you selected these projects to be significant to your learning experience. Typically this section is two to three pages. 
6. Accomplishments:  Typically this section is 5 pages per project.   IF a specific class had multiple noteworthy projects, choose one that best highlights your skills.  Each project must be from a different course.  Document each project as follows: 
   1. Title of Project.
   2. An explanation of the accomplishments that the project is illustrating: what is the purpose, what are the results, what have you learned? 
   3. Evidence of accomplishment. Examples include diagrams and report findings. 
   4. A summary that demonstrates your mastery of the subject by referring to the evidence presented in section 6c.  (Typically, the summary is a few paragraphs in length.)
7. References:   Each project references are expected to be added.   


Note: Generative AI use is not allowed in the portfolio write-up. If any of the overview, summaries, or reflection show up as likely written by Gen-AI, the student will fail the initial submission. It will then be sent back to the student for a rewrite, and it must be resubmitted with acceptable changes prior to the resubmission deadline. See the Evaluation section for more information.


Submission Instructions
The portfolio must be submitted electronically to the Program Chair as a single PDF document along with an editable copy of the Record of Evaluation of the IT Graduate Portfolio form that includes your name, ASU ID number, submission date and the attempt number. 
Initiate the Record of Evaluation of MS Information Technology Form via Adobe Sign, fill in the information, and attach the portfolio to the form. The form and portfolio attachment will be routed automatically to the program chair for review. 
The deadlines for submission are given in the table below:
Deadlines for Submission
Graduation Semester
	Submission window
	Resubmission (if required)
	Spring
	March 1 to 30
	Before April 30
	Summer
	June 1 to 30
	Before July 20
	Fall
	October 1 to 30
	Before December 7
	











Evaluation
The evaluation rubric for the portfolio is given on the Record of Evaluation of the Information Technology MS Graduate Portfolio form. The portfolio is complete only when all sections reflected on this rubric are deemed satisfactory.  The Graduate Program Chair or their representative is responsible for evaluation of the portfolio and will notify you of the result.
There are three possible outcomes of the evaluation:


1. The portfolio is accepted as submitted.
2. The portfolio is returned to you for minor corrections, which you correct and resubmit. Generally returned because of errors in spelling, grammar, or format required corrections.
3. The portfolio is returned to you for major changes, which you correct and resubmit. The Graduate Program Chair or their representative will inform you of specific instructions regarding the steps that will be necessary for the portfolio to be accepted.  


Completion
Completion of the graduate portfolio is formally recognized when the Graduate Program Chair acknowledges the achievement by signing the Record of Evaluation of the Information Technology MS Graduate Portfolio form, and the signed form is transmitted to the Polytechnic School’s graduate advising office. Upon receipt of the signed form the graduate advising team will update your records to indicate completion of the culminating experience and eligibility for graduation.  If you do not complete the graduate portfolio by the end of the semester in which you complete all other requirements for the degree, your culminating experience will not be complete and you will not be eligible for graduation in that semester.
Process for Appeal
In the event that you disagree with the evaluation of your portfolio, you may request a second evaluation by faculty that were not previously involved in the process. To initiate the appeal process, a formal request for a second review must be submitted via email to the graduate advising office to be reviewed by the Graduate Affairs Committee along with a copy of the same portfolio that was submitted earlier to the Graduate Program Chair. If the Graduate Affairs Committee recommends that it be accepted, the Graduate Program Chair will accept that recommendation. If the Graduate Affairs Committee does not recommend that the portfolio be accepted, you must modify the portfolio and resubmit it based on the earlier communication from the Graduate Program Chair.