URL: https://accounts.google.com/ServiceLogin?service=wise&passive=1209600&osid=1&continue=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit&followup=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit&ltmpl=docs&ec=GAZAGQ
Parent: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit

﻿MS Information Technology
2025-2026 Handbook


CONTENTS
	

CONTENTS        2
About the MS Information Technology Program        4
About The Polytechnic School        5
Purpose of this Handbook        5
Graduate Advising and Program Contacts        5
Admission to the Program        6
Submission of an Application        6
Application Deadlines        7
Applicant Eligibility        7
Additional Coursework or Provisional Admission        8
Deferral of Admission        8
ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions        8
Accelerated Bachelor's + Master’s Degree programs        9
Financial Aid        9
Program Requirements        10
Focus area in Cybersecurity        10
Portfolio (0 credit hours)        12
Applied Project (3 credit hours)        12
Plan of Study (iPOS)        13
Responsibilities and Rights of Students and Faculty        14
Graduate Internships        16
Academic Progress and Degree Completion        16
Time Limit for Degree Completion        16
Continuous Enrollment Policy        17
Applying for Graduation        17
Pre-Admission or Transfer Credit        17
Leave of Absence Policy        18
Course Load and Credit Limits        18
Academic Standards and Policies        19
Satisfactory Student Progress        19
Grade and GPA Requirements        19
Academic Probation and Dismissal        20
Grade Grievance Appeal Policy        21
Academic Integrity, Professionalism, and Conduct        21
Academic Integrity        21
Student Code of Conduct        21
Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI)        22
Use and Sharing of Academic Materials        22
Student Concerns and Support        23
Accessibility and Inclusive Excellence        23
Accessibility and Accommodations        23
Prohibition Against Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation        23
Inclusive Excellence at Arizona State University        24
Fulton Schools of Engineering Mission and Values        24
General ASU Information        24
Academic Calendar and Deadlines        24
Academic Notifications        25
Department and University Resources        25
Academics and Professional Development        25
Student Support Services        25
Student Wellness        25
Business and Finance Services        26
Contact Information        26
Appendix A        27
Instructions for the Master of Science in Information Technology Portfolio        27
Purpose of the Portfolio        27
Portfolio Format        27
Submission Instructions        28
Deadlines for Submission        28
Evaluation        28
Completion        29
Process for Appeal        29
Appendix B        30
Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area        30
Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area        30
Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area        30
Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area        30




Program Overview
	About the MS Information Technology Program


Information Technology is a multidisciplinary approach which incorporates technology, people, and processes to innovate and implement information systems that strengthen business and government performance and provide value to our communities and environments. 


The MS Information Technology program provides courses to build competencies to innovate reliable, secure communications networks for enterprises, design and implement secure cloud systems for customers, and leverage data models and data analytics for business leaders. 


Students develop the ability to conceptualize, organize and realize information technology projects that meet the needs of users within an organizational or societal context. Students engage in theoretical and hands-on approaches to learn the critical components of information technology.  


The MS Information Technology program has two focus area options: Cybersecurity and Artificial Intelligence. Students are admitted to a specific focus area which will define the coursework towards degree completion. Program course work encompasses core technologies and a specialization area with a culminating project experience.


Cybersecurity focuses on building secure, resilient, and compliant technology environments through the integration of risk management, security architecture, and digital defense strategies. This focus area emphasizes network forensics, security governance, regulatory compliance, and the protection of systems and data across physical and cloud-based infrastructures.


Artificial Intelligence focuses on the design, development, and deployment of intelligent systems that extract insight and drive automation from large-scale data. This focus area emphasizes advanced analytics, machine learning, data visualization, and the integration of AI models into cloud environments and intelligent devices to solve real-world problems.


MS Information Technology graduates are well-qualified for careers in information technology management and operations. The degree bridges the gap between business needs and technology solutions.  Graduates will synthesize knowledge of diverse areas of technology and influence the future of information technology.










About The Polytechnic School


The Polytechnic School (TPS) is redefining higher education through a hands-on, collaborative approach to learning that emphasizes solving real-world challenges. We believe that how students learn is just as important as what they learn, and we are committed to fostering an environment grounded in ASU’s vision of the New American University: one that values excellence, access, and societal impact.


Located in Mesa—Arizona’s third largest city and part of the Greater Phoenix area—the 600-acre ASU Polytechnic campus is home to more than 6,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Surrounded by a unique desert arboretum, the campus features some of the most innovative engineering and technology programs in the country, supported by state-of-the-art laboratories, facilities, and centers.


TPS programs are led by more than 100 expert faculty whose insight and innovation translate research into action and education into lasting impact. Graduate students in 13 master’s programs, four doctoral programs, and one graduate certificate (Learning Engineering) benefit from an interdisciplinary environment that integrates engineering, applied sciences, management, and technology. Through coursework, applied projects, and original research, students gain experiences that bridge theory and practice. To learn more about The Polytechnic School and its graduate programs, visit poly.engineering.asu.edu. 
Purpose of this Handbook


This handbook is intended for current and prospective students in the MS Information Technology program within The Polytechnic School. It outlines admissions, degree requirements, academic procedures, and relevant university policies. This handbook is meant to supplement, but not replace, the ASU Graduate College Policies and Procedures Manual. Students are expected to understand and follow all policies set by the university, the Graduate College, and their academic program. Updates to this handbook will be communicated as needed.
Graduate Advising and Program Contacts


The Polytechnic School (TPS) Graduate Advising is the primary resource for graduate students seeking support with course planning, submission of the Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS), graduation requirements, and other administrative processes. Advisors also assist students in understanding and navigating policies at the program, college, and university levels. Students are encouraged to maintain regular communication with their academic advisor to clarify degree expectations and support timely progress toward graduation.


Students can schedule an advising appointment or identify their academic advisors using the available resources. The TPS Graduate Advising Office is located on the second floor of Sutton Hall on the Polytechnic Campus and can be reached at polygrad@asu.edu or 480-727-1874.


Dr. Tatiana Walsh serves as the Graduate Program Chair for the MS Information Technology program and can be reached at drtatiana.walsh@asu.edu. She is the primary contact for questions related to academic content, research, faculty mentorship, applied project advising, and professional development. She also supports students in navigating academic challenges, clarifying degree expectations, and aligning their program experience to career goals.


Dr. Kurt Paterson is the Director of The Polytechnic School. While students are encouraged to first consult their Academic Success Coordinator or Graduate Program Chair for support, Dr. Paterson may be contacted in exceptional cases that require additional attention or cannot be resolved through regular advising channels. He can be reached at kurt.paterson@asu.edu. 


Admission to the Program
	

Admission to the MS in Information Technology program requires the completion of all general admission requirements and procedures set forth by Graduate Admission Services. Applicants should first review the Graduate Admissions Services webpage for university-wide application procedures, deadlines, and international student requirements. 


Submission of an Application


For admission information and procedures, review the How and When to Apply For Graduate Admission website. Applications for all graduate degree programs and non-degree status must be submitted via the application website. 


Admitted students who are unable to start their programs in their admitted term can request to defer their start to the next admissible semester. Students may submit a request to defer through their MyASU. 


A complete MS Information Technology program application includes the following items:


* An online Graduate Admission application, including attachments of the following documents:
   * A professional resume
   * A statement of purpose
* Transcripts from each college and/or university attended
   * Unofficial transcripts can be uploaded directly to the online application. Official transcripts will be required if admitted.
* International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements, as defined by Graduate Admission Services. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, or PTE score requirements, as international applications will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.


Application Deadlines 


The dates noted are priority deadlines for submitting a complete application. Applications received after this date may still be considered but are not guaranteed to be evaluated for the semester of application.
                Polytechnic Campus Priority Deadlines 
Fall semester (August)                 March 1
Spring semester (January)                August 1


ASU Online Priority Deadlines
Fall semester (August)                 July 20
Spring semester (January)                December 1
Summer semester (May)                March 1


Applicant Eligibility


Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:


* Minimum of a bachelor’s degree in information technology, computer science, applied computing, computer engineering, or a closely-related field, from a regionally accredited college or university.
* Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program or in the last 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
* Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S. institution, or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
* Applicants with grades below the minimum level may be considered for provisional admission if there is strong evidence suggesting the potential of outstanding performance in the Polytechnic School graduate program. 


Academic units submit recommendations regarding admission decisions to Graduate Admission Services; only the Dean of Graduate Admission can make formal offers of admission. Applicants are able to monitor the status of their application through My ASU. If admitted, the formal letter of admission can be downloaded from My ASU. If denied admission, letters are sent via email to the address on record.












Additional Coursework or Provisional Admission


Upon admission, a student may be assigned one or more additional coursework to complete in addition to the 30 credit hour requirement for the MS IT program. Additional courses may vary, but could include: 
        IFT 300 Intermediate Database Management Systems
        IFT 366 TCP/IP and Routing 


Students should refer to their admit letter to verify any assigned courses. Additional coursework must be completed by the end of the first year with a grade of B or better, unless otherwise noted, but it is highly encouraged that additional courses are taken within the first semester. Students must request an override for the course: https://fultonapps.asu.edu/override/. 


Students admitted with provisional admission must successfully complete their first year with a 3.0 cumulative GPA or better. A student’s inability to meet this requirement may result in immediate dismissal from their graduate program. 


Campus students will be automatically enrolled into their deficiency course in their first semester as part of their cohort. 


Students who believe they have met their deficiency through coursework may enroll in the test-out exam. Specific information regarding the exam process will be shared with admitted
students.


After the test-out exam deadlines, no further requests will be considered. Information on the exam will be sent shortly after admission to the program from the graduate advising office.


Deferral of Admission


Admitted students who are unable to begin in their intended term may request a deferral of their admission to the next admitting term by submitting a formal request via MyASU. Deferral approval is not guaranteed. 


ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions


ASU undergraduate students who meet the eligibility criteria for specific participating master’s degree programs will receive an offer for ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions in their final undergraduate semester. 


Students who accept an ASU Personalized Graduate Admissions offer will be automatically admitted to one selected ASU graduate degree program without submitting a graduate admission application or supplemental materials. 


Accelerated Bachelor's + Master’s Degree programs


The Polytechnic School offers accelerated BS/MS and BSE/MS programs for students currently enrolled in an approved undergraduate program. This allows students to graduate with both degrees within five years of full-time coursework.


If you are interested to see if your program is part of the accelerated program offerings, visit Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs and contact the Polytechnic School Graduate Advising office at polygrad@asu.edu to discuss your options. Admission into the accelerated programs is not guaranteed and an application is required to be considered. Interested students should review the available options on the Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs webpage and contact their academic advisor for guidance. 
Financial Aid


Several resources are available to assist students in understanding how to finance a graduate degree. We recommend visiting Pay for your Graduate Education via Graduate College, and Paying for College via Financial Aid and Scholarship Services. For an estimated cost of enrollment, visit: Standard Cost of Attendance. For more information on funding opportunities, please visit: TPS Graduate Student Funding Opportunities.  
  











































Program Requirements
	

Focus area in Cybersecurity


The MS in Information Technology with a focus in cybersecurity requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Students will be required to follow the specific program outline for their admitted focus area: 


Required Core Courses (12 credit hours) 
* IFT 510 Principles of Computer and Information Technology Architecture (3)
* IFT 520 Advanced Information Systems Security (3)
* IFT 530 Advanced Database Management Systems (3)
* IFT 540 Information Systems Development (3)


Focus Area Courses (15 credit hours) 
*  IFT 523 Network Forensics (3)
   * Develops expertise in detecting, analyzing, and investigating network-based attacks through digital evidence collection.
*  IFT 525 Introducing AI into Cybersecurity (3)
   * Examines the application of artificial intelligence to enhance threat detection, automate response, and improve cybersecurity operations.
*  IFT 543 Security Compliance (3)
   * Focuses on regulatory frameworks and industry standards for implementing and auditing information security compliance programs.
*  IFT 560 Cloud Architecture (3)
   * Covers the principles of designing scalable, resilient, and secure architectures for cloud-based computing environments.
*  IFT 562 Cloud Security and Operation (3)
   * Addresses the implementation of security controls and operational best practices for protecting cloud infrastructure.
Electives (0-3 credits)
IFT 500-level course or approved CSE, GIT, OMT, SER, STP, or TEM 500 level course. 
                      
Approved non-IFT Electives 
A maximum of 3 credits outside of the IFT prefix can apply towards the MS IT program as an elective course 


Culminating Experience (0-3 credit hours)
        Portfolio (0 credits)
        IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits)








Focus area in Artificial Intelligence in Information Technology 


The MS in Information Technology with a focus in artificial intelligence requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Students will be required to follow the specific program outline for their admitted focus area:


Required Core Courses (12 credit hours) 
* IFT 510 Principles of Computer and Information Technology Architecture (3)
* IFT 520 Advanced Information Systems Security (3)
* IFT 530 Advanced Database Management Systems (3)
* IFT 540 Information Systems Development (3)


Focus Area Courses (15 credit hours)
* IFT 511 – Analyzing Big Data (3)
   * Big Data powers modern AI, enabling scalable, high-impact model training and insight generation.
* IFT 512 – Advanced Analytics for Big Data/AI (3)
   * Core AI-relevant course which includes machine learning techniques, statistical models, and AI model deployment workflows.
*  IFT 533 – Data Visualization & Reporting (3)
   * Critical for interpreting and communicating AI model outputs and insights. Visualization is a key part of exploratory data analysis in AI.
*  IFT 561 – Data in the Cloud (3)
   * Supports cloud-based AI operations, including storage of datasets, model training on distributed systems, and deploying AI models as services.
*  IFT 598 – Managing Intelligent Devices (3)
   * Ties directly to edge AI or IoT-AI integration, where intelligent devices use AI models locally or via cloud services.
Electives (0-3 credits)
IFT 500-level course or approved CSE, GIT, OMT, SER, STP, or TEM 500 level course. 
                       
Approved non-IFT Electives 
A maximum of 3 credits outside of the IFT prefix can apply towards the MS IT program as an elective course 


Culminating Experience (0-3 credit hours)
        Portfolio (0 credits)
        IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits)


Portfolio (0 credit hours)


This is the default option for all students enrolled in the MS Information Technology program. To complete the MS IT degree under these requirements, a student must complete a total of 30 credit hours of approved coursework and, in the semester the student intends to graduate, submit a portfolio to the Graduate Program Chair within the submission window noted below. 


The portfolio must elucidate the quality of the education that the student has received through the course of study. The purpose of the portfolio is to demonstrate a high level of mastery of the principles and practice of IT through a compilation of work that the student has completed through the course of their graduate study. 


All portfolios must describe three notable projects from three different courses  or academic accomplishments that have been completed through the course of graduate study. The portfolio must illustrate the evolution and advancement of technical expertise and mastery of the field of information technology achieved by the student.


The portfolio must include submission of the three projects or documentation of the accomplishments. The portfolio is a professional document that is written in APA style (minimum of 25 page/maximum of 30 pages) and will be evaluated for technical content and the quality of writing and presentation.  


Detailed requirements and the evaluation rubric that will be used to grade the portfolio are given in the appendix of this document.  


The required dates for submission of the portfolio are given in the table below:


Graduation Semester
	Submission window
	Resubmission (if required)
	Spring
	March 1 to 30
	Before April 30
	Summer
	June 1 to 30
	Before August 7
	Fall
	October 1 to 30
	Before December 7
	

Applied Project (3 credit hours)


The applied project is carried out under the supervision of a faculty member, who is a member of the Information Technology  program’s graduate faculty.  The faculty member is your faculty advisor for the applied project.  The applied project committee consists only of your faculty advisor.


Students are not assigned a faculty advisor.The students must take the initiative to contact a faculty member working in their area of interest. 


Students desiring to conduct an applied project must first obtain the approval of a faculty member to work with them on the project. This is recommended to be done before the end of the second semester (by +1 year for accelerated students).Enrollment in the applied project is in the last semester of the graduate program.   


The faculty advisor will mentor, supervise, assess the applied project, and assign the final grade.  Credit is earned when the faculty advisor approves the applied project work  and a grade of B or better is awarded. 


The applied project highlights the knowledge and skills students have developed during their program. The applied project includes the implementation of an information technology solution, written paper and oral presentation.Students are encouraged to tackle real-world challenges, gaining valuable experience that will benefit them in their future careers. 


The student is required to conduct an oral presentation of the applied project to the faculty advisor,  program chair and faculty. The presentation is to discuss the implementation and results of the project. This presentation will be open to all graduate students.
  
The student and the faculty advisor work together to identify goals that would signify a successful completion of the student obligation in the development of the applied project. A schedule and measurable milestones are used to help assess the overall progress and outcomes. 


Applied projects are not required to be connected with industry mentors.  If the student is pursuing an industry-based project, the faculty advisor for the project will ask the industry mentor for their comments regarding whether the student met expectations in the development of the applied project. 


Plan of Study (iPOS)


All MS Information Technology students are required to submit an Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS) no later than the start of their second semester in the program. The iPOS functions as a formal agreement between the student, the program, and the Graduate College. It outlines the student’s degree requirements, including core and elective coursework and the selected culminating experience (e.g., applied project). An approved iPOS is required before a student may register for key components of the program, such as IFT 593: Applied Project, or IFT 584: Internship. The iPOS must be reviewed and approved by the student’s faculty advisor, the Graduate Program Chair, and the Dean of the Graduate College. 


A student can access the iPOS by visiting My ASU > My Programs > iPOS > Graduate Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS). Please reference our iPOS Overview for in-depth information on what must be included on the iPOS.


In order to ensure accurate and timely communication of the culminating experience from academic and faculty advising, students should apply for graduation by the deadline in which they intend to graduate and review the iPOS for accuracy. The iPOS must be updated to reflect the student’s intended plans for graduation. 


Responsibilities and Rights of Students and Faculty
	

Responsibilities and Rights of Master’s Students


Master’s students are expected to engage actively and professionally with their academic advisor, along with their faculty advisor (as applicable), throughout their program. Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:


Maintain Communication. Regularly engage with your academic advisor, as well as your faculty advisor (as applicable), to clarify expectations, seek feedback, address concerns, and stay on track with program requirements.


Complete Degree Requirements. Fulfill all required coursework and program milestones in a timely manner to remain in good academic standing.


Manage Your Plan of Study. Submit and update your Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS) to reflect your coursework and culminating experience.. Ensure that all information is listed and approved before scheduling your defense or final submission.


Coordinate Milestone Scheduling. Work with your academic advisor, as well as your faculty advisor (as applicable). Portfolio deadlines are fixed each semester and published in the handbook.


Submit Materials and Respond to Feedback. Respond to feedback promptly and professionally to support your growth and continued progress.


Prepare for Milestones. Thoroughly prepare for your portfolio submission, or applied project presentation, incorporating feedback, and refining your final deliverable.


Meet Submission Deadlines. Submit all required documents for the culminating experience (e.g., portfolio, applied project), and complete all Graduate College processes by posted deadlines.


Comply with Policies and Standards. Understand and adhere to ASU policies regarding academic integrity, responsible research conduct, human subject protections, and the ethical use of generative AI. Seek guidance from your academic advisor, or the Graduate Program Chair if questions arise.


Pursue Professional Development. Take advantage of professional development opportunities related to research, teaching, career readiness, or applied practice, and seek funding opportunities to support your research and career goals, when applicable.


Students pursuing an applied project have the right to request a change in their faculty advisor at any time if the advising relationship is not functioning effectively. Students are encouraged to consult their academic advisor or the Graduate Program Chair to discuss concerns and explore options for a smooth transition. All committee changes must be reflected in the iPOS.


All graduate students are expected to read, understand, and meet the terms of the ASU Graduate College Policies and Procedures handbook as outlined at: ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures.


Responsibilities and Rights of Faculty Advisors 


Faculty who agree to serve as an advisor for a student’s applied project assume primary responsibility for supporting their academic progress, professional development, and successful milestone completion. Key responsibilities include, but are not limited to:


Advising and Communication. Maintain regular, clear communication with the student (and co-chair, if applicable) to support a collaborative advising relationship. Foster a respectful and supportive mentoring environment that promotes student success.


Professional Guidance. Provide mentorship on academic planning, project development, and professional skill-building. Offer timely, constructive feedback on written work, including final drafts, and help the student navigate and reconcile differing committee feedback, if applicable.


Administrative Oversight. Support the development and maintenance of the student’s Interactive 
Plan of Study (iPOS), including course selection. Assist in completing program milestones, including timely coordination with committee members and submission of required forms.


Planning and Compliance. Help the student define a feasible scope and timeline for their applied project. 


Policy Awareness. Stay informed about university and program policies related to degree requirements, academic integrity, generative AI, and research compliance. Consult with TPS Graduate Advising or the Graduate Program Chair as needed.


Professional Support. Encourage the student to pursue relevant funding, fellowship, and professional development opportunities. Provide letters of recommendation or serve as a reference in support of the student’s academic and career goals, as appropriate.


Faculty advisors have the right to withdraw from their advising role at any time if the advising relationship is not functioning effectively. In such cases, faculty are encouraged to consult with the Graduate Program Chair to facilitate a smooth transition for the student.


Graduate Internships 
	

Graduate students may pursue internships with external companies, nonprofits, government agencies, or other organizations during their studies to gain professional experience and develop career-specific skills aligned with their program of study. While internships are not required, they may be included on the Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS) as an optional component using the IFT 584: Internship course for academic credit.


To be eligible for credit, the internship must be relevant to the student’s academic program and receive formal approval from the Graduate Program Chair. Students may apply up to three credit hours of IFT 584 (graded Pass/Fail) toward their degree requirements. These positions are typically paid by the host organization, but do not include tuition coverage or health insurance benefits through ASU. International students must confirm eligibility for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) and obtain formal approval from the International Students and Scholars Center (ISSC) before accepting any internship for credit.


All internships must be conducted in compliance with TPS and ASU policies and must not interfere with academic progress or delay degree completion. Students are encouraged to consult their academic advisor, along with their faculty advisor or chair/co-chairs (as applicable), to ensure that the experience aligns with their academic and professional goals.


The Polytechnic School allows a maximum of three credit hours of internship. To explore available options and review policies and procedures, students can visit The Polytechnic Schools’ Internships webpage or access support through ASU Career Services’ Internship Resources. 




Academic Progress and Degree Completion
	Time Limit for Degree Completion


Graduate students must complete all program requirements, including coursework, milestones, and the successful completion of the culminating experience (e.g., applied project), within established time limits for their degree. Master’s students have six consecutive years from the semester of admission to complete their program. Exceptions may be granted only with approval from the student’s faculty advisor or chair/co-chairs (as applicable), the Graduate Program Chair, and the Dean of the Graduate College. Students who do not complete all degree requirements within the allowed timeline may be subject to withdrawal from the program or university. 


Continuous Enrollment Policy


Once admitted to a graduate degree program, students must be registered for a minimum of one credit hour of graduate-level coursework (not audit) during each fall and spring semester of their graduate education. Summer enrollment is required only if the student (1) begins the program in a summer term, (2) is completing a culminating experience (e.g., applied project or portfolio), or (3) plans to graduate during the summer term. This credit must appear on the Plan of Study or must be an appropriate graduate-level course (e.g. 595, Continuing Registration). 


Students who have completed all necessary coursework but still need to complete their culminating experience can request an override for 595 Continuing Registration for 1 credit hour to maintain active status in their program. First term requests are sent to the student’s committee chair to approve and verify that the student is making adequate progress. If additional term requests are necessary, along with each request the student must submit a timeline of remaining requirements to verify how they plan to complete the program.


Courses with grades of “W” (Withdrawal), “X” (Audit), or “I” (Incomplete) will not satisfy the continuous enrollment requirements for that semester. Students resolving an “I” grade must remain enrolled until the incomplete is cleared. Failure to meet continuous enrollment requirements may result in being withdrawn as an active student from the program. 
Applying for Graduation


Graduate students should become familiar with the process of applying for graduation to ensure the graduation application is submitted by the deadline of the graduating semester. To view current and upcoming deadlines, students should log into MyASU and click on the Graduation tab. Before submitting the graduation application, students must ensure their Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS) is accurate, fully approved, and up to date.


Students completing a portfolio or applied project must follow all Graduate College graduation procedures and submission deadlines. Failure to meet these requirements may delay degree conferral. 
Pre-Admission or Transfer Credit


Graduate-level coursework completed prior to admission, whether at ASU or another accredited institution, may be included on the Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS) if it was not applied to a previously awarded degree. No more than fifteen credit hours of pre-admission or transfer coursework is accepted. Eligible courses must be completed at the graduate level (500-level or higher) with a grade of “B” (3.00) or higher, be relevant to the student’s program of study, and have been completed within three years of the semester of admission to the graduate program. All transfer credits are subject to review and approval by the Graduate Program Chair and the Dean of the Graduate College. 
Leave of Absence Policy


Students planning to discontinue enrollment for a semester or more must request approval for a leave of absence through the Plan of Study (iPOS) petition titled Leave of Absence Request. The Graduate College allows for a leave of absence for a maximum of two semesters during a student’s entire program. A petition for a leave of absence may be submitted through a student’s interactive plan of study and must be approved by the Graduate College. This request must be submitted and approved before the start of the semester of the anticipated absence.


An approved leave of absence will enable students to re-enter their program without reapplying to the university and the graduate program. Students who do not enroll for a fall or spring semester and are not on an approved Leave of Absence are considered withdrawn from the university under the assumption that they have decided to discontinue their program. A student removed for this reason may reapply for admission to resume their degree program; the application will be considered along with all other new applications to the degree program.


A student with a Graduate College-approved Leave of Absence is not required to pay tuition and/or fees, but in turn is not permitted to place any demands on university faculty or use any university resources. See the ASU Graduate Policies and Procedures for more information.
Course Load and Credit Limits


Registration in nine (9) credits is considered a full-time load for graduate students at ASU, and graduate students in the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering are restricted to a maximum of 12 credits per semester. Overrides to register for more than 12 credits require the approval of the student’s committee chair and Graduate Program Chair and will be granted only in exceptional cases. Requests to register for more than 15 credits will not be supported.         


Program or University Withdrawals


Graduate students who intend to leave their program and the university must submit a Voluntary Withdrawal Form and separately withdraw from their courses through MyASU. International students must consult the International Students and Scholars Center (ISSC) before initiating a withdrawal, as it may affect visa status. Students planning to change degree programs should not withdraw from their current program until they have been officially admitted to the new one. In cases of serious illness or personal hardship, students may request a Medical or Compassionate Withdrawal, which counts toward maintaining continuous enrollment if approved.


Academic Standards and Policies 
	Satisfactory Student Progress


To remain in satisfactory progress standing, all master’s students must make consistent, timely advancement toward the completion of their degree. This includes meeting all academic performance benchmarks established by the university, the Graduate College, and the academic program, including:


1.  maintaining a minimum 3.00 GPA in all required categories, as outlined below,
2.  earning a grade of “C” (2.00) or better in all courses listed on the Interactive Plan of Study  (iPOS),
3. completing all required degree milestones, such as coursework and the culminating experience (e.g., portfolio, applied project), in a timely manner,
4. adhering to the established six-year time limit to complete the master’s degree, and
5. maintaining continuous enrollment in one graduate credit hour during fall and spring semesters, and summer if graduating or using university resources, unless on an approved Leave of Absence.


After each semester, TPS Graduate Advising reviews student records to assess whether satisfactory progress is being made. Students who meet all expectations are considered in satisfactory progress standing. Those who do not may be placed on academic probation or recommended for dismissal from the program or university, depending on the circumstances.
Grade and GPA Requirements


All graduate students must achieve a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or higher (scale is 4.00 = “A”) in each of the following categories:


1. all graduate-level coursework (500-level or above) taken after admission, excluding deficiency courses listed in the original letter of admission,
2. all coursework listed on the approved Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS), and
3. all post-bachelor’s coursework completed at ASU, regardless of whether it appears on the iPOS.


Courses below “C” (2.00) cannot be included on the iPOS but will be factored into graduate and cumulative GPA calculations. Courses with an “I” (Incomplete) or “W” (Withdrawal) also cannot be included on the iPOS and may indicate unsatisfactory progress if multiple occurrences arise during the program. Students will be placed on academic probation if they fail to meet GPA requirements.


Students in accelerated master’s (4+1) programs must meet separate requirements during the undergraduate portion of their degree. Once they transition to graduate status, they must meet all graduate-level academic expectations outlined in this section.


Accelerated Bachelor’s + Master’s Probation Policy


Students in the Polytechnic School accelerated bachelor/masters programs are required to have/maintain a minimum 3.0 cumulative undergraduate ASU GPA on a 4.0 scale, at the time of the Accelerated Master’s Program agreement. In addition, students in the accelerated bachelor/masters programs are also required to maintain a 3.0 GPA for all coursework on the graduate plan of study (including shared 400-level courses) and all 500-level coursework.


Shared coursework is defined as the courses being applied toward the bachelor's degree and also being utilized for credit in the master's program. Shared courses are identified on the Accelerated Master’s Program Agreement that must be completed prior to starting the accelerated bachelor/master program.
Students in the accelerated program who do not maintain a 3.0 minimum GPA in their shared coursework will be placed on graduate probation upon entering the master’s degree program. Students in this situation will be notified of their probation status and the steps needed to lift the probation.
Academic Probation and Dismissal 


Graduate students may be placed on academic probation if they (1) fail to meet GPA requirements, or (2) fall behind on program milestones or do not demonstrate satisfactory academic progress as determined by their program and the Graduate College. Students placed on probation will receive formal notice from TPS Graduate Advising outlining the reason(s) for probation, the specific steps required to return to good standing, and the timeline in which conditions must be met. In most cases, students will have up to nine credit hours or one academic year, whichever comes first, to meet GPA requirements and any other outlined conditions. For progress-related issues (e.g., incomplete milestone, deficiency completion), a specific deadline will be provided in the probation notice.


If a student fails to meet the conditions of probation or shows continued lack of progress, the TPS Graduate Affairs Committee may recommend dismissal from the program or university. The student will receive a written notice outlining the reasons for dismissal and will have 10 business days from the date of the letter to submit an appeal. The committee will review the appeal and issue a written decision. If the appeal is granted, the student must sign an agreement acknowledging the terms for continued enrollment and the consequences of not meeting them. If the appeal is denied, the committee will recommend dismissal to the Dean of the Graduate College, who makes the final decision. Students dismissed for academic reasons may reapply for admission after one year, subject to Graduate College approval.


Note: Students admitted on a provisional or deficiency basis may also be recommended for dismissal if they fail to meet the specific conditions outlined in their admission letter. These may include: (1) failure to complete assigned deficiency courses within the specified timeline, (2) earning a grade below “B” (3.00) in a required deficiency course, or (3) deficiency GPA falling below 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A). Provisional or deficiency admits who do not meet their admission requirements are not eligible to appeal and will also be dismissed. 
Grade Grievance Appeal Policy 


Graduate students seeking to appeal a final course grade must follow ASU’s official Grade Grievance Appeal Policy. Appeals must be initiated and resolved during the regular semester (fall or spring) immediately following the term in which the disputed grade was issued and must be completed before commencement. This policy only applies to final course grades. Concerns related to academic integrity violations, faculty misconduct, or discrimination are addressed through separate university policies. ASU prohibits retaliation against students or witnesses involved in grade grievance appeals. Students are encouraged to review both the informal and formal steps outlined in the appeal policy and consult their academic advisor as needed.


Academic Integrity, Professionalism, and Conduct
	Academic Integrity


All graduate students are expected to uphold the highest standards of academic integrity as outlined by the university, the Graduate College, and the academic program. Key policies include  the ASU Student Honor Code and the Fulton Schools of Engineering Honor Code. Newly admitted graduate students are required to complete the ASU Academic Integrity Tutorial during their first semester.


Academic integrity violations may occur in any academic context, including coursework, research, or teaching duties. Violations include, but are not limited to, cheating, plagiarism, fabrication of data, tampering, and aiding or facilitating such misconduct. These violations may result in serious consequences such as grade penalties, loss of funding, registration holds, academic probation, suspension, or dismissal from the program or university. Sanctions may be imposed in accordance with policies established by the university, the Graduate College, and the academic program. Questions or concerns about academic integrity may be directed to the Fulton Schools of Engineering’s Academic Integrity Officer. For more information, visit the ASU Academic Integrity 
webpage.
Student Code of Conduct


The aim of education is the intellectual, personal, social, and ethical development of the individual. The educational process is ideally conducted in an environment that encourages reasoned discourse, intellectual honesty, openness to constructive change, and respect for the rights of all individuals. Self-discipline and respect for the rights of others in the university community are necessary for the fulfillment of such goals. The Student Code of Conduct is designed to promote this environment at Arizona State University.


The Student Code of Conduct sets forth the standards of conduct expected of students who choose to join the university community. Students who violate these standards will be subject to disciplinary sanctions in order to promote their own personal development, to protect the university community, and to maintain order and stability on campus.


All students are expected to adhere to the ABOR Student Code of Conduct.
Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI)


The use of generative AI tools in any university context, including coursework, research, and teaching, is governed by ASU’s Academic Integrity Policy. Instructors and committees are responsible for defining what constitutes appropriate use of generative AI within their specific course or culminating experience (e.g., applied project). Graduate students are expected to consult their instructors or committee to determine whether, and to what extent, AI tools may be used.
If generative AI is permitted, students must clearly disclose its use and provide proper attribution in all submitted documents or presentations. Failure to disclose or unauthorized use of generative AI may constitute an academic integrity violation and could result in disciplinary action.


Students are encouraged to refer to the ASU Artificial Intelligence webpage, the Office of the University Provost’s Generative AI webpage, and the ASU Library Guide on Generative AI for guidance. These resources offer best practices for citing AI tools, linking to AI-generated outputs, and understanding the ethical considerations related to AI use in academic and research contexts. 
Use and Sharing of Academic Materials


All instructional content students engage with at ASU, including lectures, course materials, videos, assessments, and other educational resources, is protected by copyright. Students may not record, share, upload, sell, or distribute these materials outside the intended academic context unless explicitly authorized. This includes notes taken during class or content accessed through ASU learning platforms.


Recording of class sessions is prohibited unless approved in advance as part of an official accommodation through ASU Student Accessibility and Inclusive Learning Services (SAILS). Students must also refrain from uploading to any course site, discussion board, or academic platform any material that is not their original work, unless they have complied with all applicable copyright laws. Instructors and ASU administrators reserve the right to remove content suspected of copyright infringement.


Student Concerns and Support


Graduate students who encounter challenges with peers, faculty, advisors, or staff are encouraged to seek resolution through the appropriate channels. For concerns involving harassment, discrimination, or retaliation, students should follow ASU’s official reporting procedures. For academic or interpersonal issues that impact progress but fall outside formal reporting structures, students may begin by consulting TPS Graduate Advising or the Graduate Program Chair. If additional support is needed, students may escalate the issue to The Polytechnic School Director’s Office or the Fulton Schools of Engineering Dean’s Office. Students can also reach out to the Dean of Students Office, Student Advocacy and Assistance, and University Ombudspersons for confidential, impartial guidance exploring possible solutions.


Accessibility and Inclusive Excellence
	Accessibility and Accommodations


ASU is committed to ensuring access and inclusion for all students. Students who need accommodations due to a disability must register with ASU Student Accessibility and Inclusive Learning Services (SAILS) and provide appropriate documentation to the relevant faculty, staff, or university representative in a timely manner. Early communication is essential to allow sufficient time to arrange accommodations in academic, testing, or other university-related settings. 
Prohibition Against Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation


ASU is committed to maintaining a safe, inclusive, and respectful environment for all members of the university community. ASU prohibits all forms of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation based on protected characteristics, including race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and genetic information.


In accordance with Title IX, ASU does not discriminate based on sex in any educational program or activity, including admissions and employment. Sexual harassment and sexual violence are prohibited. Students who experience sex-based discrimination or harassment, including sexual assault, are encouraged to seek support and explore reporting options. For Title IX-related questions or reports, students are encouraged to reach out to ASU’s Title IX Coordinator. Confidential counseling is available through ASU Counseling Services. For more information, visit the ASU Sexual Violence Prevention webpage. For information on making a report please go to www.asu.edu/reportit/.






Inclusive Excellence at Arizona State University


Arizona State University is committed to inclusion - ethnic, intellectual, socioeconomic and cultural - and advancing knowledge that reflects the deepest possible grasp of broad perspectives. 


Inclusive excellence is a term that reflects Arizona State University’s commitment to admitting all students who are qualified to attend the university under the university’s admission standards without regard to their race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin. And, all ASU students and employees are welcome to participate in all ASU programs, groups, and organizations.


The university provides those students with an education at the highest levels of excellence through a faculty of distinguished scholars. Doing so has resulted in the recent invitation for ASU to join the American Association of Universities (AAU) with a student body of more than 80,000 students on ASU’s four campuses. 
Fulton Schools of Engineering Mission and Values


The Fulton Schools of Engineering is committed to advancing ASU’s charter as “a comprehensive public research university, measured not by whom it excludes, but by whom it includes and how they succeed; advancing research and discovery of public value; and assuming fundamental responsibility for the economic, social, cultural and overall health of the communities it serves.”


The Fulton Schools’ mission is to advance innovative research and education while fostering entrepreneurship and professional leadership. This mission is grounded in core values: cultivating excellence, delivering impactful innovation, encouraging bold thinking, fostering a collaborative learning community, and building a foundation for all to succeed.


Central to this mission is a deep commitment to inclusive excellence, i.e., ensuring that policies, practices, and culture support the success and well-being of all students, faculty, and staff. Through these ongoing efforts, the Fulton Schools strive to be a global leader in advancing inclusive excellence in engineering education and practice.


General ASU Information
	Academic Calendar and Deadlines 


Students are responsible for meeting all deadlines set within the ASU Academic Calendar. The calendar can be found at students.asu.edu/academic-calendar.
Academic Notifications


To stay informed and avoid delays, students must regularly check their MyASU portal, Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS), and ASU email for important updates from the program, TPS Graduate Advising, and the Graduate College. These platforms provide essential information about degree progress,  registration holds, deadlines, and required actions. All official university communications are sent to the student’s ASU email, and timely responses are expected.
Department and University Resources


ASU offers a broad range of support services to help students succeed academically, professionally, and personally. The list below highlights many of these resources across several categories. For additional services, visit the ASU Graduate College, ASU Student Services, and Fulton Schools of Engineering Student Resources webpages.
Academics and Professional Development
* Academic Integrity Policy
* ASU libraries
* Career Centers (both ASU and Fulton Schools of Engineering)
* Graduate Student Government
* FSE student resources
* Professional development
* Writing Center
Student Support Services
* Student Accessibility and Inclusive Learning
* Graduate Wellness Resources
   * 10 Best Practices in Graduate Student Wellbeing
* Housing
* International Student Services
   * FSE International Student Resources
* Veterans 
Student Wellness 
* Counseling
* Health
* Pitchfork Pantry 
* ASU Police 
* Safety Escort reservations 
Business and Finance Services
* ASU ID cards
* ASU bookstore
* Parking and Transit
* Student accounts
* Emergency student loans
* Student Crisis Fund 
Contact Information


For more information about the Polytechnic School graduate programs or the policies in this handbook, contact the graduate advising office at polygrad@asu.edu or 480-727-1874.


































Appendix A 
	Instructions for the Master of Science in Information Technology Portfolio


Purpose of the Portfolio


The purpose of the portfolio is to demonstrate a high level of mastery of the principles and practice of Information Technology topics through a compilation of work that you have completed during the course of your graduate study. While the specific details will depend on your focus area, all portfolios must describe three notable projects that you have completed during your graduate study. The projects will illustrate the evolution and advancement of your technical expertise and mastery of your focus area in Information Technology.
Portfolio Format


The portfolio must include submission of the three notable projects from three different courses that you achieved during your graduate experience. The portfolio is a professional document that is written in APA style and will be evaluated for technical content and the quality of writing and presentation. The length of the document is minimum of 25 pages/maximum of 30 pages, excluding cover page, table of contents, and references.
The required format of the portfolio:


1. Cover page        
2. Table of Contents
3. Resume:  An up-to-date resume reflecting your accomplishments (no more than two pages)
4. Reflection:  A reflection on your graduate experience: What is your focus area? What was your favorite class? What are your academic accomplishments? What school organizations/clubs/events that you participated in? What technology position are you posting for? Do you feel that the Masters program has prepared you for your current or future technology career? Would you like to be added to the Information Technology alum group? Provide your non-school email. Typically this section is three pages.
5. Overview:  A brief description of the three notable projects that you achieved during your graduate experience and why you selected these projects to be significant to your learning experience. Typically this section is two to three pages. 
6. Accomplishments:  Typically this section is 5 pages per project.   IF a specific class had multiple noteworthy projects, choose one that best highlights your skills.  Each project must be from a different course.  Document each project as follows: 
   1. Title of Project.
   2. An explanation of the accomplishments that the project is illustrating: what is the purpose, what are the results, what have you learned? 
   3. Evidence of accomplishment. Examples include diagrams and report findings. 
   4. A summary that demonstrates your mastery of the subject by referring to the evidence presented in section 6c.  (Typically, the summary is a few paragraphs in length.)
7. References:   Each project references are expected to be added.   


Note: Generative AI use is not allowed in the portfolio write-up. If any of the overview, summaries, or reflection show up as likely written by Gen-AI, the student will fail the initial submission. It will then be sent back to the student for a rewrite, and it must be resubmitted with acceptable changes prior to the resubmission deadline. See the Evaluation section for more information.


Submission Instructions


The portfolio must be submitted electronically to the Program Chair as a single PDF document along with an editable copy of the Record of Evaluation of the IT Graduate Portfolio form that includes your name, ASU ID number, submission date and the attempt number. 
Initiate the Record of Evaluation of MS Information Technology Form via Adobe Sign, fill in the information, and attach the portfolio to the form. The form and portfolio attachment will be routed automatically to the program chair for review. 
The deadlines for submission are given in the table below:
Deadlines for Submission


Graduation Semester
	Submission window
	Resubmission (if required)
	Spring
	March 1 to 30
	Before April 30
	Summer
	June 1 to 30
	Before July 20
	Fall
	October 1 to 30
	Before December 7
	

Evaluation


The evaluation rubric for the portfolio is given on the Record of Evaluation of the Information Technology MS Graduate Portfolio form. The portfolio is complete only when all sections reflected on this rubric are deemed satisfactory.  The Graduate Program Chair or their representative is responsible for evaluation of the portfolio and will notify you of the result.
There are three possible outcomes of the evaluation:


1. The portfolio is accepted as submitted.
2. The portfolio is returned to you for minor corrections, which you correct and resubmit. Generally returned because of errors in spelling, grammar, or format required corrections.
3. The portfolio is returned to you for major changes, which you correct and resubmit. The Graduate Program Chair or their representative will inform you of specific instructions regarding the steps that will be necessary for the portfolio to be accepted.  


Completion


Completion of the graduate portfolio is formally recognized when the Graduate Program Chair acknowledges the achievement by signing the Record of Evaluation of the Information Technology MS Graduate Portfolio form, and the signed form is transmitted to the Polytechnic School’s graduate advising office. Upon receipt of the signed form the graduate advising team will update your records to indicate completion of the culminating experience and eligibility for graduation.  If you do not complete the graduate portfolio by the end of the semester in which you complete all other requirements for the degree, your culminating experience will not be complete and you will not be eligible for graduation in that semester.
Process for Appeal


In the event that you disagree with the evaluation of your portfolio, you may request a second evaluation by faculty that were not previously involved in the process. To initiate the appeal process, a formal request for a second review must be submitted via email to the graduate advising office to be reviewed by the Graduate Affairs Committee along with a copy of the same portfolio that was submitted earlier to the Graduate Program Chair. If the Graduate Affairs Committee recommends that it be accepted, the Graduate Program Chair will accept that recommendation. If the Graduate Affairs Committee does not recommend that the portfolio be accepted, you must modify the portfolio and resubmit it based on the earlier communication from the Graduate Program Chair.     






















Appendix B
	Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area


Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area
Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area 
Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area 


Students may make a copy of the plan of study outline to track progress within their program, and 
create a plan towards graduation. While students may use a plan of study outline or sample iPOS for planning purposes, these do not replace the official iPOS, which must be submitted and approved via MyASU. For help with course selection and sample plans, students should consult their academic advisor.