URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/graduate-students/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/

Graduate Student Resources and Forms
The Polytechnic School Advisors
Advising Home
Undergraduate Students
Graduate Students
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Internships
Meet Your Advisors
How To Guides
Student Resources
Advising FAQ
Follow Poly Advising
Follow
Follow
Follow
Visit Us
SUTTON HALL (SUTON) Map/Directions Second Floor 6049 S. Backus Mall Mesa, AZ 85212
480-727-1874 [[email protected]]
Current student?
Prospective Student?
Call 480-727-1874 to schedule an appointment.
Hours:
8-5 M-F, including breaks ASU holidays: Closed
Requesting an override
Override requests must go through the school/college offering the course. To request an override to a course offered through Fulton Schools of Engineering, please visit the override request form . The Polytechnic School processes overrides for the following prefixes: ALT, AMT, EGR, ERM, GIT, HSE, IFT, MFG, OMT, TEM, TMC
To find out the college offering your course, visit course details within the class search .
Request an Override
Forms
Individualized Study Form
Individualized Study Form for 590 Reading and Conference, 592 Research, 593 Applied Project
Individualized Study Request Form and Instructions
Medical/compassionate withdrawal
Medical/compassionate withdrawal information
International Students
Sponsor Letter Requests
Please allow five business days for your letter to be sent. Be as detailed as possible in your request; not providing necessary details may delay in the letter being sent.
Skill Verification Letter
For alumni who are beginning the process to apply for Permanent Residency (or H1B Visa) with an Employer, the legal team may request you to obtain a verification of skills obtained during your degree. If you are in this process, follow the steps in the link above to request a Skill Verification Letter (SVL).
Processing time is approximately 4 weeks .
Through skill verification, we can only verify TPS courses with these prefixes: AMT, ALT, EGR, ERM, GIT, HSE, IFT, TEM. If you completed coursework through another school and need to request skill verification for that course, you will need to reach out to the school who owns that prefix.
Skills CANNOT be verified for:
Applied Projects (593)
Capstones (570)
Conference and Workshop (594)
Continuing Registration (595)
Dissertation (799)
Internships / Curricular Practical Training (CPT) (584 / 784)
Practicum (580)
Reading and Conference (590)
Research (592 / 792)
Thesis (599)
Other culminating experiences (such as project portfolios or comprehensive exams) that do not have associated courses also cannot be verified.
Y Grades : Skills with a “Y” grade earned in the course will not be verified.
Student resources and helpful links
Scheduling an advising appointment: Current students: schedule an advising appointment Prospective students: schedule an advising appointment by calling 480-727-1874
Current students: schedule an advising appointment
Prospective students: schedule an advising appointment by calling 480-727-1874
iPOS Overview
Request an Override
Engineering Student Resources
Poly Student Resources
Graduate Internships – We encourage graduate students to seek out internship opportunities during their graduate program.
Master’s Opportunity for Research in Engineering (MORE)
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Graduate Student Handbook – The Polytechnic School Graduate program handbooks are program-based and can be found on the left sidebar of each masters degree and doctoral degree webpages.
Graduate program handbooks are program-based and can be found on the left sidebar of each masters degree and doctoral degree webpages.
Graduate Student Financial Aid, Student Employment, and Funding Opportunities
Graduate Student Financial Aid, Student Employment, and Funding Opportunities
Schedule an appointment
Current students: Schedule using our online scheduling tool
Prospective students: Schedule an advising appointment by calling 480-727-1874