URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/it/

Changing the lens of engineering education
Dina Verdín received an NSF CAREER Award to develop education theories that reflect engineering students’ diverse identities and experiences.
More news from The Polytechnic School
From Vellore to ASU: two degrees for clean energy impact
Latest news
Students pursuing a graduate degree in smart mobility in India can attend VIT for the first year and then ASU for the second and receive two master’s degrees.
Energize the future: Launching a new PhD program
Latest news
Explore a new doctoral degree program in clean energy systems, featuring top labs, expert faculty and strong industry partnerships.
Inspiring creativity and connection beyond the classroom
Latest news
ASU students benefit from trips to visit industry partners and conferences to enhance their educational experience.
Read more news on Full Circle
Our programs
Aviation
The aviation programs offer degrees that combine academic studies with professional flight and aviation training.
Degree options: BS in air transportation management , BS in air traffic management , BS in professional flight , BS in unmanned aerial systems , BAS in aviation, MS Tech in aviation management and human factors
Clean energy systems
Use problem-solving skills in hands-on laboratories and project-based courses to design clean energy applications.
Degree options: MS and PhD in clean energy systems
Engineering
​Engineering students work in interdisciplinary teams to solve real-world challenges in dedicated creative spaces that foster innovation.
Degree options: BSE and MS in engineering, PhD in engineering education systems and design
Engineering education systems and design
The engineering education systems and design program aims to increase the understanding and design of engineering education ecosystems.
Degree options: PhD in engineering education systems and design
Environmental and resource management
This program is for students seeking to understand the scientific and technological aspects of byproducts, environmental health, sustainability and natural resource conservation.
Degree options: BS and MS in environmental and resource management
Graphic information technology
This program lives at the intersections of creativity, visual design and technology, preparing students to create visual content for multi-channel distribution in print, web, photo, video and animation.
Degree options: BS , BAS and MS in graphic information technology, BAS in internet and web development, BS and MS in user experience
Human systems engineering
Human systems engineering combines engineering and psychology to design systems consistent with human capabilities and limitations.
Degree options: BS , MS and PhD in human systems engineering
Information technology
​Students acquire skills in data acquisition and retrieval, managing networks and adapting computer systems and applications.
Degree options: BS, MS and Doctor of Information Technology (DIT)
Technological entrepreneurship and management
Learn to start, finance and operate businesses and nonprofit organizations.
Degree options: BS in technological entrepreneurship and management , BAS in operations management , MS Tech in management of technology
At The Polytechnic School, you can make innovation the norm.
The Polytechnic School offers 23 undergraduate and 19 graduate degree programs . With unique opportunities for hands-on projects, partnerships with industry, and participation in cutting-edge research, you can pursue your passion for technology and engineering at The Polytechnic School.
Subscribe to the Poly Perspective newsletter
Sign up to receive official school news, event information, involvement opportunities and more.
First name
Last name
Email Address