URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/engineering/ms-engineering/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/accelerated-4-1-degree-programs/

M.S. in Engineering
Engineering
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
MS Engineering
Request More Info
2025–26 Engineering Graduate Handbook
Record of Evaluation of MS Engineering Graduate Portfolio Form (note: only for active MS students)
Application Deadlines
September 15 Spring semester (January) April 1 Fall semester (August)
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Program Contacts
Graduate Advising: [[email protected]] or 480-727-1874
Graduate Program Chair: Samantha Brunhaver
More Degree Options
BSE in Engineering
MS in Engineering
Ph.D. in Engineering Education Systems and Design
Accelerated Master’s Degree Program Information
All Degree Programs
Move forward with an Engineering MS
The master’s degree in Engineering program consists of a core set of courses designed to develop applied analytical expertise across disciplinary boundaries, with direct applications of advanced design principles to system design, management and control. The expertise developed in the core curriculum is reinforced through focus areas that provide flexibility for the student, including alternative energy, mechanical, and manufacturing engineering. The degree will offer options for students culminating in a master’s thesis, or an applied project. Each of these options is designed to engage students with real-world applications of engineering and to develop problem-solving skills.
Career opportunities
Engineers collaborate on interdisciplinary teams to design, manufacture and deliver innovative technological products and services. The graduate program enables students to develop not only sophisticated engineering technical skills but also the important professional skills of communication, teamwork and collaboration, and the adaptability that many employers seek. Graduates are prepared to work in large corporations, government agencies, small businesses, as well as to go on to graduate school to pursue advanced degrees. Due to the emphasis on design and project-based learning, the program supports an entrepreneurial spirit, and some students start companies of their own.
Admission requirements
Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in engineering, physical sciences, mathematics or a similar field.
Minimum of a 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.0=A) in the student’s first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.0 = A) in nine semester hours of graduate coursework from a U.S. institution, or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.0 = A) in an applicable conferred master’s degree= from a regionally accredited college or university.
If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered.
An online Graduate College application.
Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required.
No GRE requirement
Submit a professional resume and personal statement as part of the online admissions application.
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
Degree requirements
The M.S. in Engineering requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. These credit hours must include the following:
30 credit hours and a thesis, or
30 credit hours including the required Applied Project course (EGR 593), or
30 credit hours and a portfolio
Please refer to the MS Engineering Handbook located on the left side bar for additional information.
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.