URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/ms-clean-energy/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/accelerated-4-1-degree-programs/

M.S. in Clean Energy Systems
Clean Energy Systems
MS in Clean Energy Systems
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
MS Clean Energy Systems
Request More Info
2025 – 26 Clean Energy Systems Graduate Handbook
Application Deadlines
September 15 Spring semester (January) April 1 Fall semester (August)
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Program Contacts
Graduate Advising: [[email protected]] or 480-727-1874
Graduate Program Chair: Prof. A.M. Kannan
More Degree Options
BSE in Engineering
MS in Engineering
PhD in Engineering Education Systems and Design
Accelerated Master’s Degree Program Information
All Degree Programs
Are you interested in tackling technical and environmental issues of the 21st century? Use your problem-solving skills in hands-on laboratories and project-based courses to design clean energy systems for various applications. You will develop applied analytical expertise across disciplinary boundaries, directly applying advanced design principles to energy system engineering design, management and control.
In the MS program in clean energy systems, students not only develop sophisticated engineering technical skills in clean energy systems, but they also exercise the professional competencies of collaboration, communication, teamwork and adaptability. Students study a variety of energy sources based renewable energy systems, including solar PVs, batteries, fuel cells, power electronics, zero emission vehicles systems, etc. The applied courses within the program provide exposure to different disciplines, including electrical and electronics engineering, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, chemistry and physics.
This program can be completed in as few as two semesters, or one academic year. The average time to completion is four semesters.
Degree requirements
The M.S. in Clean Energy Systems requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. These credit hours must include the following:
30 credit hours and a thesis, or
30 credit hours including the required Applied Project course (EGR 593), or
30 credit hours and a portfolio
Please refer to the MS Clean Energy Systems Handbook located on the left sidebar for additional information.
Required Core (9 credit hours) EGR 520 Engineering Analysis I (3) EGR 522 Statistics for Quality Control in Manufacturing (3) EGR 530 Principles of Systems Engineering (3)
Electives (15-21 credit hours)
Culminating Experience (0-6 credit hours) EGR 593 Applied Project (3) EGR 599 Thesis (6) Portfolio (0)
Additional curriculum information
Students can complete six credit hours of a thesis, or three credit hours of an applied project, or a portfolio. The portfolio option is a collection of accomplishments and reflective learning through the graduate program period. The portfolio is a place to record, explore and reflect on the academic-professional journey, and it can serve many different audiences.
Elective coursework credit hours will vary depending on the students’ culminating experience. Students should contact the advising office/graduate program chair for an approved list of elective coursework.
Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in clean energy systems or a similar field.
Minimum of a 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.0=A) in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.0 = A) in the applicable master’s degree.
If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered.
An online Graduate College application.
Official transcript from each college or university attended.
Submit a professional resume and personal statement as part of the online admissions application.
Two letters of recommendation
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
Additional application information
In the written statement, the applicant must include an introduction, share goals, and explain why they decided to pursue graduate education.
Letters of recommendation should come from professors, managers, supervisors or professional associates.
GRE is not a mandatory requirement.
Tuition information
When it comes to paying for higher education, everyone’s situation is different. Students can learn about ASU tuition and financial aid options to find out which will work best for them.
Career opportunities
Graduates are prepared for opportunities in the diverse industries of alternative and renewable energy systems, power electronics and automotive technologies. They can work in large corporations and small businesses, research at government agencies such as Oak Ridge National Laboratory or the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, or go on to graduate school to pursue advanced degrees.
Graduates are prepared to go into the fields of:
Renewable systems engineering — design, integration
Renewable systems or technologies engineering — validation, operation and maintenance, evaluation, quality, testing
Solar microinverter manufacturing engineering
With the emphasis on design and project-based learning on various clean energy systems, the program supports an entrepreneurial spirit, and some graduates start companies of their own.
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.