URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/git/ms-in-graphic-information-technology/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/accelerated-4-1-degree-programs/

MS in Graphic Information Technology
Graphic Information Technology
About MS GIT
2025–26 GIT Graduate Handbook
2024–25 GIT Graduate Handbook
Alumni
Record of Evaluation of MS GIT Graduate Portfolio Form (note: only for active MS students)
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
Application Deadlines
September 15 Spring semester (January) March 1 Summer semester (May) April 1 Fall semester (August)
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
Why Graphic Information Technology?
MS in Graphic Information Technology (GIT) provides students with the opportunity to study within the various areas of graphics and cross-media design.
GIT prepares graduates for management positions in the diverse graphic technology industries, such as:
Internet and Web development
usability and user experience
social media
planning and evaluation of cross media content creation and output
digital media production
digital asset management
pre-media, digital printing and publishing
motion graphics
Degree Options
The degree program has two campus options: ASU Online or the Polytechnic campus. It is recommended that applicants inquire about differences in the two campus options prior to application. Applicants choose the campus when completing the online Graduate Admissions Application.
This program can be completed in as few as two semesters, or one academic year. The average time to completion is four semesters.
Admission Requirements
Applicants to the MS GIT must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in graphic design, web design and development, videography, motion graphics and visual effects, user experience design, or a similar field.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in a minimum of nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S institution; or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered.
A completed online Graduate Admissions Application
Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required.
No GRE requirement
Professional resume
Personal statement and writing sample. *The personal statement should address your interest in the degree, as well as any related professional experience and your short-term and long-term goals for your career. This statement is strongly regarded during the admittance process. More details can be found in the online application.
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
Degree Requirements
The MS GIT program is a course-based master’s degree that provides students with the opportunity to study various areas of graphics and cross-media. This course-based, professional graduate degree is structured to allow students an additional elective in place of a culminating experience, providing more hands-on, project-based learning aligned with professional outcomes.
Students will take 9 credits of required courses, along with 21 credit hours of technical elective coursework for a total of 30 credit hours.
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.