URL: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/ms-user-experience/
Parent: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/accelerated-4-1-degree-programs/

User experience, MS
User Experience
About the MS in User Experience
Overview
2025–26 User Experience Graduate Handbook
Courses
Faculty
iPOS
Research Labs
Record of Evaluation of MS User Experience Graduate Portfolio Form (note: only for active MS students)
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
The Polytechnic School Advisors
Advising Home
Undergraduate Students
Graduate Students
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Internships
Meet Your Advisors
How To Guides
Student Resources
Advising FAQ
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Program Requirements (Archives)
MS User Experience Degree Requirements 2021–2023
Application Deadlines
Sept 15 (Polytechnic), Nov 15 (online) Spring semester (January)
Apr 1 (Polytechnic), Jul 1 (online) Fall semester (August)
Apr 1 (online) Summer semester
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
*The master’s in user experience is offered jointly by the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering and the College of Integrative Sciences and Arts .
This program is now also available through ASU Online.
User experience, MS
The Master of Science (M.S.) in User Experience program is offered by the College of Integrative Sciences and Arts and the Polytechnic School within the Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering on ASU’s Polytechnic campus.
User experience (UX) focuses on the design, development, and evaluation of products and services that are useful, usable and desirable. The UX program addresses UX research, design, content development, communication, tone of voice and evaluation of all components and products with which end users interact. This includes hardware and software user interfaces, informational products, help systems, user support, identifying user needs, tasks, procedures, capabilities, and limitations when using technology and interacting with information.
Why User Experience?
ASU’s M.S. in User Experience educates tomorrow’s leaders in the user experience profession. UX is a rapidly growing field and UX professionals need skills in research, analysis, design, and communication to effectively lead teams and collaborate with clients and technical personnel. Students with this degree can typically expect to find jobs in the areas of:
User Experience
User Research
Design Research
Human Factors Research
Human-Computer Interaction
Interaction Design
Interface Design
Digital Visualization Design
Usability Testing
Admission Requirements
Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in psychology, graphic information technology, graphic design, human systems engineering, business, cognitive science, design, technical communication, or a similar field.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in a minimum of nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S institution; or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered.
An online Graduate College application.
Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required.
No GRE requirement
Submit a professional resume, writing sample, and personal statement as part of the online admissions application.
Students may submit a sample of work (portfolio, writing sample, research report, prototype, etc., showcasing your work).
Two letters of recommendation
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
Applicants to this program generally have completed an undergraduate course in statistics.
Degree Requirements
The M.S. in User Experience (UX) requires a minimum of 30 credit hours with grades of “B” (3.00) or higher. Students must complete a program of study, or iPOS , with the listed coursework within the first semester of admission. The list of required and elective options can be found in Courses .
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.