
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
The Polytechnic School Advisors
Advising Home
Undergraduate Students
Graduate Students
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Internships
Meet Your Advisors
How To Guides
Student Resources
Advising FAQ
Follow Poly Advising
Follow
Follow
Follow
Visit Us
Sutton Hall
Map/Directions Second Floor 6049 S. Backus Mall Mesa, AZ 85212
480-727-1874 [[email protected]]
Current student?
Prospective Student?
Call 480-727-1874 to schedule an appointment.
Hours:
8-5 M-F, including breaks ASU holidays: Closed
You can accomplish a lot in five years
Pursue a master’s degree in less time and with less financial commitment.
The accelerated master’s degree program offers our top undergraduate students the opportunity to pursue a graduate degree at an accelerated rate.
Eligible and admitted students in an approved undergraduate degree program have the ability to share (double count) courses between their undergraduate and graduate degrees. After completion of the undergraduate degree, these students transition directly into the corresponding graduate degree program with up to 9 or 12 credit hours earned (credit hours dependent upon program).
Air Traffic Management
Air Transportation Management
Professional Flight
Unmanned Aerial Systems
Automotive Systems
Electrical Systems
Mechanical Engineering Systems
Robotics
Robotics
Program Requirements
75 credit hours completed towards a bachelor’s degree (if transfer student, must be at term 6 on major map) to be considered for admission
90 credit hours completed before starting to share credits
Cumulative GPA of 3.00 or higher
Complete applicant agreement (see advising office for an appointment)
International students must meet English Proficiency requirements or have completed 90 credit hours of undergraduate coursework with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 at ASU
Eligible students must follow the Application Process to be considered for admission. Admission is not guaranteed.
Application Process
Students must complete an applicant agreement (The Polytechnic School form). This must be approved prior to the start of sharing classes or receiving overrides for 500-level class(es).
Once agreement is approved, the student is eligible to start enrolling in shared classes.
Students with an approved agreement on file will submit the Graduate Admission application once the term of application (term after BS graduation) opens up. The Graduate Admissions Application is available at asu.edu/graduate/apply . Spring applications will open February 1 in the year prior while Fall applications will open September 1 the year prior.
Be sure to select the appropriate degree program, campus, and start term during the application process. There are no refunds and applications cannot be moved from one program to another. Students must be admitted by The Polytechnic School and ASU Graduate Admission Services before the end of the bachelor’s program in order to share—double count—courses.
Upload professional resume and statement of purpose. Your professional resume and personal statement will be uploaded as Word or PDF files. The statement should be no more than two pages, include your goals and objectives in applying to the accelerated bachelor’s/master’s program, and any accomplishments that support admission to the accelerated degree program.
Your professional resume and personal statement will be uploaded as Word or PDF files. The statement should be no more than two pages, include your goals and objectives in applying to the accelerated bachelor’s/master’s program, and any accomplishments that support admission to the accelerated degree program.
Eligible students must follow the Application Process to be considered for admission. Admission is not guaranteed. Students must maintain the accelerated master’s GPA policy in order to stay active in the program and be eligible to move into the graduate program. ​
Interested?
If you are admitted to one of the qualifying undergraduate degree programs listed above, be sure to discuss your interest with your undergraduate advisor. If you have any further questions or want to learn more about the application process, please contact our Advising Services Office (480-727-1874) to schedule an appointment with the accelerated master’s advisor.
Admitted Student
Congratulations on your acceptance into an accelerated master’s degree program in the Polytechnic School, Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering! We are excited to have you in our program and we look forward to working with you as you move into your master’s degree. Please contact our advisors if you have any questions.
Grades and Academic Performance Standards | Accelerated Master’s Degree
Students in The Polytechnic School accelerated master’s degree programs are required to have a minimum 3.0 cumulative undergraduate ASU GPA on a 4.0 scale, at the time of the accelerated master’s agreement. In addition, students in the accelerated master’s degree programs are also required to maintain a 3.0 GPA for all coursework on the graduate plan of study (including shared 400-level courses) and all 500-level coursework. Shared coursework is defined as the courses being applied toward the bachelor’s degree and also being utilized for credit in the master’s program.
Students in the accelerated program who do not maintain a 3.0 minimum GPA in their shared coursework will be placed on probation upon entering the graduate program. Students in this situation will be notified of their probation status and the steps needed to lift the probation.