
Advising Frequently Asked Questions
The Polytechnic School Advisors
Advising Home
Undergraduate Students
Graduate Students
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Internships
Meet Your Advisors
How To Guides
Student Resources
Advising FAQ
Follow Poly Advising
Follow
Follow
Follow
Visit Us
Sutton Hall
Map/Directions Second Floor 6049 S. Backus Mall Mesa, AZ 85212
480-727-1874 [[email protected]]
Current student?
Prospective Student?
Call 480-727-1874 to schedule an appointment.
Hours:
8-5 M-F, including breaks ASU holidays: Closed
Appointments are required to be scheduled in advance to meet with an advisor. Students can schedule an appointment with their advisor by visiting the Advising Scheduling Calendar . Once on the scheduling webpage, you can see your advisor’s calendar by following these steps:
Select I have an ASU ID
Under Select Program choose The Polytechnic School
Select the advisor for your program
If you are unsure of your advisor’s name, find an advisor for your major by visiting Meet Your Advisors . Select a time that works with your schedule and complete the appointment requirements to reserve an appointment time. Please be sure to indicate ‘Requesting phone appointment’ when scheduling an appointment with an advisor.
Undergraduate students: Be sure to watch this helpful video about how to use DARS before your appointment.
Prospective students must contact our office to request an appointment.
DARS stands for Degree Audit Reporting System. This document can be found on your MyASU under the section My Programs and eAdvisor. You will then click on My Progress Reports (DARS) and run either a Degree Audit (shows what you have left to complete as well as any transfer work) or an Unmet Audit (shows only what you have left to complete).
This document is a live document tailored for each individual student and will update if you run a new one after enrolling/dropping a course or when a grade has posted. You can see your remaining requirements signified by a red X, or what you have completed, which is signified by a green check mark. Courses in progress will also appear on your audit in the required area. We recommend that you check out this helpful video about how to use DARS .
Advisors look at this before and during every appointment. If you have any questions, you can make an appointment with your advisor and go over how to read your DARS.
Late Registration Requests
The Late Registration Policy and request process are outlined at: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/undergraduate-students/
Students should be aware of the add, drop and withdrawal deadlines .
Late withdrawal requests for courses offered through The Polytechnic School:
Students have the option for a complete withdrawal through the complete withdrawal deadline .
If you need to submit a petition, you should meet with your academic advisor for assistance on this process.
Petition Forms and Information
If you were admitted to ASU as a first time freshman, you can view why you are on or off track at any time by clicking the green “On Track” or red “Off Track” link on your MyASU under My Programs and eAdvisor .
Be sure to watch this helpful video about how to run your DARS .
Learn more about critical tracking and eAdvisor
If you are looking to change into a program that is offered by another college, you will need to follow the steps listed on the change of major website.
If you are looking to change into a degree offered by The Polytechnic School, please call 480-727-1874 or schedule an appointment online .
Undergraduate students : If an internship is required for your program, please review the Internship Policy and forms for detailed information about internship requirements. If an internship is not a requirement on your major map, please consult with your academic advisor about utilizing an internship opportunity for credit. To schedule an appointment, please visit the Advising Scheduling Calendar .
Graduate students : If you would like to request an internship (584) as part of your program of study, please review the Internship Policy and forms for detailed information about internship requirements. You will then need to consult with your academic advisor about utilizing an internship opportunity for credit. To schedule an appointment, please visit the Advising Scheduling Calendar .
Students must submit an override request by visiting the Engineering Override Request form . This is only applicable for courses offered through the Fulton Schools of Engineering, Polytechnic School. Override requests must go through the school/college offering the course. To request an override to a course offered through Fulton Schools of Engineering, please visit the link above.
Please note that MAT and ENG courses are offered outside our college. To find out the college offering your course, visit course details within the class search .
Please visit the Academic Calendar for important dates and deadlines.
You can apply for graduation by logging in to MyASU . Select Graduation Apply for Graduation on the right under My Programs and Degree Progress, then proceed through the directions.
You may withdraw from classes at the University Registrar Services. Please consult your advisor before dropping any courses.
Withdrawal deadline dates vary class by class, so please check MyASU for the deadline dates that correspond with your class before beginning the process:
Click on the small calendar icon next to the professor’s name to see the withdrawal date.
Go to MyASU
Go to My Classes (Click Registration, Click Drop/Withdraw, You will see a list of your registered classes, click the check box next to the box for which you wish to withdraw, click proceed to step 2 of 3, click finish dropping)
Find your desired class
For information on a complete session withdrawal, please visit Complete Session Withdrawal Information .
Important dates and deadlines are also located on the Academic Calendar .
Visit the Meet Your Advisor webpage to see your program advisor(s). You may also schedule an appointment online . If you would like to request a phone appointment, choose ‘Requesting phone appointment’ when scheduling your appointment. Express advising is also an option for current students and is available Wednesdays and Thursdays throughout the year. Express advising details and hours are posted at: https://poly.engineering.asu.edu/advising/ .
New Students: Visit Transfer Students at ASU
How do I know what courses are being applied toward my program at ASU? You can review your DARS (Degree Audit Reporting System) information to determine completed and remaining requirements. See ‘What is DARS and how do I use this tool?’ above for information on how to view and use your DARS.
You can review your DARS (Degree Audit Reporting System) information to determine completed and remaining requirements. See ‘What is DARS and how do I use this tool?’ above for information on how to view and use your DARS.
Transfer credit evaluation process can take up to six weeks once the transcripts have been received by Arizona State University.
I am a new transfer student. When is the best time to meet with an advisor? You can meet with your advisor anytime once your transfer courses have been evaluated. Course equivalences for Arizona colleges can be found at aztransfer.com . Please see above on how to schedule an appointment. Please submit out of state coursework for evaluation at: www.asu.edu/transfercredit . Once your transfer courses have been evaluated, please schedule an advising appointment to discuss how your transfer credits apply to your program.
You can meet with your advisor anytime once your transfer courses have been evaluated. Course equivalences for Arizona colleges can be found at aztransfer.com . Please see above on how to schedule an appointment.
Please submit out of state coursework for evaluation at: www.asu.edu/transfercredit . Once your transfer courses have been evaluated, please schedule an advising appointment to discuss how your transfer credits apply to your program.
New Students: Visit Transfer Students at ASU
How do I know what courses are being applied toward my program at ASU? You can review your DARS (Degree Audit Reporting System) information to determine completed and remaining requirements. See ‘What is DARS and how do I use this tool?’ above for information on how to view and use your DARS.
You can review your DARS (Degree Audit Reporting System) information to determine completed and remaining requirements. See ‘What is DARS and how do I use this tool?’ above for information on how to view and use your DARS.
Transfer credit evaluation process can take up to six weeks once the transcripts have been received by Arizona State University.
I am a new transfer student. When is the best time to meet with an advisor? You can meet with your advisor anytime once your transfer courses have been evaluated. Course equivalences for Arizona colleges can be found at aztransfer.com . Please see above on how to schedule an appointment. Please submit out of state coursework for evaluation at: www.asu.edu/transfercredit . Once your transfer courses have been evaluated, please schedule an advising appointment to discuss how your transfer credits apply to your program.
You can meet with your advisor anytime once your transfer courses have been evaluated. Course equivalences for Arizona colleges can be found at aztransfer.com . Please see above on how to schedule an appointment.
Please submit out of state coursework for evaluation at: www.asu.edu/transfercredit . Once your transfer courses have been evaluated, please schedule an advising appointment to discuss how your transfer credits apply to your program.
Please contact: Financial Aid and Scholarship Services