URL: https://accounts.google.com/ServiceLogin?service=wise&passive=1209600&osid=1&continue=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit&followup=https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit&ltmpl=docs&ec=GAZAGQ Parent: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xSM6leTYvTw4RUe5oNn95hxMG4pZFCVB/edit ﻿MS Information Technology 2025-2026 Handbook CONTENTS CONTENTS 2 About the MS Information Technology Program 4 About The Polytechnic School 5 Purpose of this Handbook 5 Graduate Advising and Program Contacts 5 Admission to the Program 6 Submission of an Application 6 Application Deadlines 7 Applicant Eligibility 7 Additional Coursework or Provisional Admission 8 Deferral of Admission 8  The Polytechnic School (TPS) is redefining higher education through a hands-on, collaborative approach to learning that emphasizes solving real-world challenges. We believe that how students learn is just as important as what they learn, and we are committed to fostering an environment grounded in  is home to more than 6,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Surrounded by a unique desert arboretum, the campus features some of the most innovative engineering and technology programs in the country, supported by state-of-the-art laboratories, facilities, and centers. TPS programs are led by more than 100 expert faculty whose insight and innovation translate research into action and education into lasting impact. Graduate students in 13 master’s programs, four doctoral programs, and one graduate certificate (Learning Engineering) benefit from an interdisciplinary environment that integrates engineering, applied sciences, management, and technology. Through coursework, applied projects, and original research, students gain experiences that bridge theory and practice. To learn more about The Polytechnic School and its graduate programs, visit poly.engineering.. It outlines admissions, degree requirements, academic procedures, and relevant university policies. This handbook is meant to supplement, but not replace, the  (TPS) Graduate Advising is the primary resource for graduate students seeking support with course planning, submission of the Interactive Plan of Study (iPOS), graduation requirements, and other administrative processes. Advisors also assist students in understanding and navigating policies at the program, college, and university levels. Students are encouraged to maintain regular communication with their academic advisor to clarify degree expectations and support timely progress toward graduation. Students can schedule an advising appointment or identify their academic advisors using the available resources. The TPS Graduate Advising Office is located on the second floor of Sutton Hall on the Polytechnic Campus and can be reached at polygrad@. While students are encouraged to first consult their Academic Success Coordinator or Graduate Program Chair for support, Dr. Paterson may be contacted in exceptional cases that require additional attention or cannot be resolved through regular advising channels. He can be reached at kurt.paterson@ Priority Deadlines Fall semester (August) March 1 Spring semester (January) August 1  graduate program. Academic units submit recommendations regarding admission decisions to Graduate Admission Services; only the Dean of Graduate Admission can make formal offers of admission. Applicants are able to monitor the status of their application through My  offers accelerated BS/MS and BSE/MS programs for students currently enrolled in an approved undergraduate program. This allows students to graduate with both degrees within five years of full-time coursework. If you are interested to see if your program is part of the accelerated program offerings, visit Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs and contact the Polytechnic School Graduate Advising office at polygrad@ allows a maximum of three credit hours of internship. To explore available options and review policies and procedures, students can visit The Polytechnic Schools’ Internships webpage or access support through  accelerated bachelor/masters programs are required to have/maintain a minimum 3.0 cumulative undergraduate  Director’s Office or the Fulton Schools of Engineering Dean’s Office. Students can also reach out to the Dean of Students Office, Student Advocacy and Assistance, and University Ombudspersons for confidential, impartial guidance exploring possible solutions. Accessibility and Inclusive Excellence Accessibility and Accommodations  graduate programs or the policies in this handbook, contact the graduate advising office at polygrad@’s graduate advising office. Upon receipt of the signed form the graduate advising team will update your records to indicate completion of the culminating experience and eligibility for graduation. If you do not complete the graduate portfolio by the end of the semester in which you complete all other requirements for the degree, your culminating experience will not be complete and you will not be eligible for graduation in that semester. Process for Appeal In the event that you disagree with the evaluation of your portfolio, you may request a second evaluation by faculty that were not previously involved in the process. To initiate the appeal process, a formal request for a second review must be submitted via email to the graduate advising office to be reviewed by the Graduate Affairs Committee along with a copy of the same portfolio that was submitted earlier to the Graduate Program Chair. If the Graduate Affairs Committee recommends that it be accepted, the Graduate Program Chair will accept that recommendation. If the Graduate Affairs Committee does not recommend that the portfolio be accepted, you must modify the portfolio and resubmit it based on the earlier communication from the Graduate Program Chair. Appendix B Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area Plan of Study Outline for Online Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Artificial Intelligence Focus Area Cohort Schedule for Campus Students - Cybersecurity Focus Area Students may make a copy of the plan of study outline to track progress within their program, and create a plan towards graduation. While students may use a plan of study outline or sample iPOS for planning purposes, these do not replace the official iPOS, which must be submitted and approved via MyASU. For help with course selection and sample plans, students should consult their academic advisor.