URL: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M0MR171dLzGibV5GUWPWRHo9dNO-HwEM/edit Parent: https://poly.engineering. Graduate Student Internship Policies and Procedures CONTENTS The Polytechnic School Internship Overview 3 TPS Graduate Student Internship Policies 3 How-to Guide and Internship Checklist 6 International Students: CPT Instructions 10 The Polytechnic School Internship Overview Internship, also commonly known as Curricular Practical Training (CPT), is an academic experience usually obtained at off-campus work settings, allowing the student to apply knowledge and skills gained in various classes. It is intended as a unique, hands-on learning experience to provide students with a number of valuable skills that they can use upon graduation. Internship is available to both domestic and international students. However, international students must work with the International Students and Scholars Center (ISSC) and submit additional documentation to obtain work authorization for CPT. Furthermore, international students must include the Internship course AMT, EGR, ERM, GIT, HSE, IFT, TMC 584 (1-3 credit hours, prefix dependent upon your major/program) as an integral part of their program (approved iPOS). Please see the section regarding international student requirements for more information. All application materials for internship must be completed two weeks prior to the registration deadline for the semester/session. See the academic calendar for specific dates on registration. Students are responsible for enrolling prior to the drop/add deadline. TPS Graduate Student Internship Policies Please review the specific TPS policies below related to graduate student internship experience. Please contact polygrad@ (TPS) expects students to honor an acceptance and withdraw from all employment seeking activities. Students who accept an offer from an organization and have an approved internship application on file with TPS advising will not be granted a different internship approval for the same academic semester should the student decide to decline their first offer to accept a different opportunity. * Internship (584) is required for inclusion in the program requirements plan of study (iPOS) for graduate students. The student can work with their academic advisor to determine this in consultation with the Program Chair. Internship may be necessary if it is a mandatory requirement of a program, a student needs practical experience to complete qualifications for an advanced degree, needs industrial experience to gain the ability to perform required degree thesis research, or needs the use of unique industrial facilities not available on campus to complete a research study. Students must complete one semester at  Internship Website. Students need to input their name and email address into the form, and then their Internship Supervisor’s name and email. The Academic Advisor and Internship Faculty Sponsor’s name and email may automatically be filled in. If not, add Polygrad@ (this document). 3. Graduate students: Ensure an approved plan of study (iPOS) is on file that reflects the internship as part of your program requirements (XXX 584). Follow registration instructions mentioned above. 4. You are responsible for submitting all required paperwork to the ISSC office and ensuring appropriate processing and approval. Once enrolled in the course, request CPT through the e-form with the ISSC. Please note that CPT is needed for both unpaid and paid internship experiences. 5. Follow all other instructions and policies related to grading and CPT eligibility as outlined in this document. Definitions of CPT and OPT F-1 Curricular Practical Training (CPT) Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is a type of off-campus employment authorization for F-1 students to complete an unpaid or paid internship experience that is integral to the completion of their degree. If you have an internship offer or you are thinking about completing an internship during your program be sure to review this entire document and the ISSC CPT website. To be eligible for CPT you must have maintained F-1 status for a minimum of one academic year and meet all eligibility requirements. For eligibility requirements read through the Internship Guide for your program (see below) and the ISSC website. F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a benefit from United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) that allows international students in F-1 status to gain off-campus work experience in their field of study before or after completion of studies for a maximum of 12 months. F-1 students who received a bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral degree in a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering or Math) field may apply for a single 17-month extension of their 12-month OPT period. The purpose of OPT is to complete the student’s academic work. If you are thinking about applying for OPT be sure to review this entire document and the ISSC OPT website. Revised November 2024