
Information Technology, BS
Information Technology
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
About Information Technology
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Degree Info and Major Map
Request More Info
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
Application Deadlines
Sept 15 (Polytechnic), Nov 15 (online) Spring semester (January)
April 1 (online) Summer session 1 (June) and Summer session 2 (July)
April 1 (Polytechnic), July 1 (online) Fall semester (August)
These are the priority application deadlines for admission and merit-based scholarship consideration. Late applicants will be considered for university admission and financial aid, but programs with higher admission standards will give priority consideration to applications submitted by these dates. Please view important dates on the academic calendar .
WUE-Eligible Program
Undergraduate students from western states who enroll in this program are eligible for a discounted tuition rate. Learn more
Degree Options
Information Technology, BS
Information Technology (Cybersecurity), BS
Information Technology (Networking), BS
Information Technology, MS
Accelerated Master’s Degree Program Information
Doctor of Information Technology
All Degree Programs
Our undergraduate information technology program provides students with skills in networking, security, and information management. Students will learn how to manage and technically support networks and data stores and apply and adapt computer systems and applications used to process data and documents within a secure network.
Two new concentrations
If you are majoring in information technology, you may now choose one of two concentrations for your degree:
Information Technology (Cybersecurity), BS
Information Technology (Networking), BS
Why Information Technology?
Want to be the individual who is responsible for designing, selecting, implementing, and managing computer-based information solutions? The information technology graduate can design and create effective solutions to today’s knowledge-based problems. Graduates have the ability to: create network architectures within a secure infrastructure, configure and administer complex computer and database systems; and, design and process interactive information management solutions, including big data applications. Students will create a project solution most every semester and hone team and presentation skills. In addition to selecting a primary focus area, (networking and security, information management, or enterprise computing) students will be able to spend the last two semesters developing and demonstrating a project-based solution to an information technology centric challenge.
Additional Program Fee: No
Career Outlook
Graduates of the information technology bachelor’s program are well qualified for careers in the information management functions of an IT department. This degree couples technical skills with the business skills needed to manage technical functions. Some graduates may pursue careers as technical support staff, including network security analyst. Based on the selected focus area and secondary skills achieved, there are myriad information technology opportunities in today’s “tech savvy” global environment.
Learn more about career outlook, example careers and average salaries.
Accelerated Master’s Degree option
This degree is offered as an accelerated degree with the on-campus M.S. Information Technology . The accelerated bachelor’s and master’s degree is designed to provide selected high-achieving students with the opportunity to combine advanced undergraduate coursework with graduate coursework and accelerate graduate degree completion. This program allows accelerated students to obtain a bachelor’s and master’s degree within five years.
Acceptance to the graduate program requires a separate application. Eligible students will be advised in their junior and senior years by their academic department to apply. This is only available for BS IT on-campus students. To review eligibility requirements, please visit: Polytechnic School Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs .
Information Technology Program Educational Objectives
Information technology is for those who want to be responsible for designing, selecting, implementing and managing computer-based information solutions. The information technology graduate can design and create effective solutions to today’s knowledge-based problems.
The goal of the Information Technology program is to produce graduates who have the ability to show several of the following characteristics at or within a few years after graduation, depending on industry expectations:
As our graduates mature, they will hold positions of increasing responsibility and leadership within their respective IT organizations;
Our graduates will have made demonstrable progress toward a graduate degree or be considered for technical promotion within three to five years of graduation;
Our graduates will continually demonstrate professional ethical standards as they hold positions of increasing responsibility within their organizations;
Information Technology Program Student Outcomes
These are the documented student outcomes used to ensure students graduating with a bachelor’s degree in Information Technology (IT) meet IT Program Educational Objectives. These outcomes coincide with ABET criterion three. These outcomes identify knowledge expectations for a graduating student in the Information Technology program.
Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions.
Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline.
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.
Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the Information Technology discipline.
Use systemic approaches to select, develop, apply, integrate, and administer secure computing technologies to accomplish user goals.
Demonstrate an ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan.
IT program recommends the following specifications in laptop computer:
CPU: Any modern (2015+) x64 capable quad core cpu or better
RAM: 16GB RAM or more
Disk Size: 512GB of available fast storage (eg. ssd) or more
MacBook is not recommended
Accreditation
The Information Technology, B.S. program at Arizona State University is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org .