
M.S. in Information Technology
Information Technology
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
About the MS in IT
2025–26 MS IT Graduate Handbook
2024–25 MS IT Graduate Handbook
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Catalog Listing
Request More Info
Record of Evaluation of MS IT Graduate Portfolio Form (note: only for active MS students)
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Program Requirements (Archives)
MS IT Degree Requirements 2020-2023 MS IT Degree Requirements 2019-2020
Application Deadlines
August 1 Spring semester (January) March 1 Fall semester (August)
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
Program Contact
Graduate Advising: [[email protected]] or 480-727-1874
This program is available through ASU Online and at the Polytechnic campus.
Students who select the M.S. in information technology obtain advanced technology skills that prepare them for careers in industry, education or government.
Why Information Technology?
The Master of Science in information technology program prepares professionals to lead the design, development and implementation of technology solutions that advance organizational objectives and address societal challenges.
Graduates are well-prepared for leadership roles in IT management and technical teams. The program integrates systems thinking, technical expertise and business acumen to equip students with the skills needed to manage technology-driven solutions across diverse industries.
Students can specialize in one of two high-demand focus areas:
Cybersecurity: Prepares graduates to protect digital systems, manage threats and ensure regulatory compliance. Students gain expertise in network security, cloud security, risk management and cloud infrastructure, along with working knowledge of systems design, configuration and administration.
Artificial Intelligence: Prepares graduates to develop intelligent systems and leverage data-driven insights to solve complex problems. Core topics include machine learning, AI-powered data analytics with deep learning, data visualization, secure cloud-integrated data systems and natural language processing.
With a culminating applied project experience, this program empowers graduates to apply learned concepts in real world contexts, drive innovation and deliver meaningful impact.   Depending on the chosen focus area and career goals, graduates are prepared for a wide range of technology leadership roles.
Cybersecurity graduates can pursue professional roles such as cybersecurity manager, information security analyst, risk and compliance officer, or cloud security architect.
Artificial intelligence graduates can pursue professional roles such as AI systems developer, machine learning engineer, data scientist, or intelligent automation specialist.
Across both pathways, this master’s degree program equips graduates to lead technical teams, manage complex technology initiatives and drive innovation across diverse organizational environments.
Attend Online
We offer this program in an online format with multiple enrollment sessions throughout the year. Interested students can request more information here .
IT program recommends the following specifications in laptop computer
CPU: Any modern (2015+) x64 capable quad core cpu or better
RAM: 16GB RAM or more
Disk Size: 512GB of available fast storage (eg. ssd) or more
MacBook is not recommended
Admission Requirements
Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of a bachelor’s degree in information technology, computer science, applied computing, computer engineering, or a closely related field, from a regionally accredited college or university.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in a minimum of nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S institution; or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
An online Graduate Admission application.
Submit a professional resume and personal statement as part of the online admissions application.
Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required.
No GRE requirement.
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements, as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
Degree Requirements
The M.S. in Information Technology requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. These credit hours must include the following:
12 credit hours of core courses
12 credit hours of focus area courses
3-6 credit hours of elective courses
0-3 credit hours culminating experience IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits) OR Portfolio (0 credits)
IFT 593 Applied Project (3 credits) OR Portfolio (0 credits)
Students currently enrolled in the BS Information Technology degree program can select the Accelerated Master’s Degree option .
ASU Online students can complete the program in as few as two semesters (one academic year). Campus immersion students follow a structured cohort model and can finish in three semesters. On average, most students complete the program in four semesters.
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.