
Management of technology, MS
Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
Take the Next Step
Apply Online
About the MS Tech in Management of Technology
2025–26 Management of Technology Graduate Handbook
2024–25 Management of Technology Graduate Handbook
2023–24 Management of Technology Graduate Handbook
Catalog Listing
Record of Evaluation of MOT Graduate Portfolio Form
Advising
Polytechnic School Advising
Schedule an Appointment
Academic Standards
Graduate Student Resources
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Academic calendar
Graduate College Policies
Resources and Forms
Application Deadlines
September 15 Spring semester (January) April 1 Fall semester (August)
These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester.
Degree Options
BS in Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
BAS in Operations Management
Management of Technology, MS
Accelerated Master’s Degree Program Information
All Degree Options
Program Contact
Program Chair: Chad Kennedy
Sutton 240 polygrad@asu.edu 480-727-1874
Program Requirements (Archives)
MSTech MOT Degree Requirements 2023–2024 MSTech MOT Degree Requirements 2020–2023 MSTech MOT Degree Requirements 2019–2020
Why management of technology?
Technology permeates every corner of our lives and drives the critical outcomes of enterprises and society. As the nature of work continues to change, the world needs new kinds of leaders who can balance the demands of business, technology and innovation.
The management of technology, MS degree was constructed for this purpose. Students will develop a foundation in business and insights into the implications and impact of technology. By integrating these disciplines, students will learn to transform industries. Elective course offerings include focus areas in data driven decision making, innovation management and strategic technology management.
We are seeking innovative professionals who have earned a technical undergraduate degree and are eager to advance their careers in the fast-paced domain of tech management. Successful applicants will have a desire to develop their leadership and management skills to complement their technical expertise. Accepted candidates will appreciate that the MOT curriculum is tailored to individual professional goals, ensuring that each graduate not only obtains basic leadership and management skills, but is ready to excel in an array of tech leadership roles.
This program can be completed in as few as two semesters, or one academic year. The average time to completion is four semesters.
At a glance
College/School: Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering Location: The Polytechnic campus
Career opportunities
The flexibility in your course options allows you to gain new capabilities. Our alumni currently work in the following fields:
AI Data Analytics
Business Analyst
Innovation Specialist
Market Research Analyst
Marketing Associate
Management Analyst
Manufacturing
Marketing Manager
Operations Manager
Product Manager
Product Development Coordinator
QA
Social Entrepreneur
Supply Chain Manager
Start-up Founders
Technology Entrepreneur
Create your career and your future.
Admission Requirements
Applicants must meet the following admission requirements:
Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in a STEM field.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program.
Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in a minimum of nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S institution; or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable.
If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered.
An online Graduate College application.
Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required.
No GRE requirement
Submit a professional resume and personal statement as part of the online admissions application.
International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency.
30 credit hours and a portfolio, or 30 credit hours including the required applied project course (TMC 593)
Our graduates will get a foundation of leadership and managerial skills to complement their existing technical skills. The MOT program then adds cutting-edge innovation strategy, data-driven decision-making and entrepreneurial skills that companies that want to compete in future economies will require. Finally, students get the opportunity to choose their interests with optional tracks mixing hard and soft skills in critical areas of interdisciplinary data science; sustainable enterprises; social, entrepreneurial, and disruptive innovation; enterprise logistics and operations; or advanced technologies such as smart manufacturing and engineering; artificial intelligence; or blockchain technology industries.
The core sequence of courses are:
OMT 520 Strategic Management of Technology
TEM 531 Disruptive Technology and Innovation Management
TEM 501 Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship or FSE 501
TEM 505 Data-Driven Decision Making
OMT 570 Advanced Project Management
Graduate courses from other majors may be selected with approval from the student’s graduate advisory committee. These additional courses are selected to support the student’s individual career goals and perceived needs. To ensure that all courses taken fit into the plan of study, all students are expected to discuss their tentative plan with their program advisors prior to registering for their first class and they must have an approved plan of study on file by the completion of nine credit hours toward the degree.
Students without a statistics course at the undergraduate level are required to complete an appropriate course during the first semester in the program. This course is in addition to the other requirements for the degree. Additional courses may be required to fulfill deficiencies, based on a review of the applicant’s transcripts. Students should contact the department for more information.
STEM-designated
STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.
TEM Faculty
Jason Bronowitz
Jason Bronowitz Associate Teaching Professor and Associate Director for Academic Excellence Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
[[email protected]] 623-252-5590 Polytechnic Campus, SUTON 340N
Andrea Cherman
Andrea Cherman Associate Teaching Professor Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
[[email protected]] 480-727-6641 Polytechnic Campus, SUTON 340A
Steve Cho
Steve Cho Associate Teaching Professor Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
[[email protected]] 480-727-1538
Aram Chomina-Chavez
Aram Chomina-Chavez Assistant Teaching Professor Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
[[email protected]] 480-727-5156 Polytechnic Campus, SUTON 340P
Joy Griffin
Joy Griffin Assistant Teaching Professor Technological and Entrepreneurship Management
[[email protected]]
Chad Kennedy
Chad Kennedy Teaching Professor Technological Entrepreneurship and Management
[[email protected]] 480-727-5970