URL: https://poly.engineering. Advising Schedule an Appointment Academic Standards About the MS in AMHF 2025–26 AMHF Graduate Handbook 2024–25 AMHF Graduate Handbook 2023–24 AMHF Graduate Handbook Record of Evaluation of MSTech AMHF Graduate Portfolio Form (note: only for active MS students) Graduate Student Resources Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs Academic calendar Graduate College Policies Resources and Forms Graduate Application Deadlines November 1 Spring semester (January) April 1 Fall semester (August) These are priority deadlines for the applied term. Applications received after this date will still be considered but could roll over to the next admitting semester. More Degree Options Air Traffic Management BS Air Transportation Management BS Professional Flight BS Unmanned Aerial Systems Aviation BAS MS Tech in Aviation Management and Human Factors Accelerated Master’s Degree Program Information All Degree Programs Program Requirements (Archives) MSTech AMHF Degree Requirements 2021–2024 The Technology (aviation management and human factors), MSTech program focuses on preparing graduates for a career in the aviation industry and is the foundation for further advanced study. Why aviation management and human factors? Courses are offered at the Polytechnic campus, with some courses offered online. The program is designed for flexibility, permitting the student to select a combination of courses in technical and supporting areas, to meet individual goals. Career Opportunities Graduates of this program are provided with professional skills and exposed to educational theory and practice for use in leadership positions within the aviation industry. Management and leadership positions at airports of all sizes require skills in labor management and policy, economics and analysis, national aerospace structure, and aviation law, as well as an awareness of unmanned systems and flight operations. Those interested in the Human Systems and Safety area will find exceptional use of educational discussions on human performance and the human limitations and capabilities of working within a complex system. Accelerated Master’s Degree option Finish two degrees faster by combining advanced undergraduate and graduate coursework during your senior year as part of the accelerated master’s degree program . Admission Requirements Applicants must meet the following admission requirements: Minimum of an earned U.S. bachelor’s degree or higher from a regionally accredited institution or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an international institution that is officially recognized by that country in a STEM field. Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in their first bachelor’s degree program, or in the last 60 hours of a student’s first bachelor’s degree program. Minimum of 3.00 cumulative GPA (scale is 4.00=A) in a minimum of nine semester hours of graduate work from a U.S institution; or a cumulative GPA of 3.00 (scale is 4.00=A) from an applicable conferred master’s degree program in a regionally accredited college or university, if applicable. If the applicant does not meet the minimum GPA requirements, the application may still be considered. In certain cases, demonstrated aptitude through professional experience or additional post baccalaureate education will be considered. An online Graduate College application . Official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants may upload legible unofficial transcripts as part of the online application; if admitted official transcripts are then required. No GRE requirement. Submit a professional resume and personal statement as part of the online admissions application. Three (3) letters of recommendation. International applicants must also meet the English proficiency requirements , as defined by Graduate Admissions. Please be sure to review the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE score requirements , as your application will not be processed without valid proof of English proficiency Degree Requirements The M.S. Tech Aviation Management and Human Factors requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. These credit hours must include the following: 30 credit hours and a thesis, or 30 credit hours including the required Applied Project course (AMT 593), or 30 credit hours and a portfolio Please refer to the MSTech Aviation Management and Human Factors Handbook located on the left side bar for additional information. STEM-designated STEM designation makes students within the program at ASU eligible for STEM specific Scholarships, OPT extension for International Students, and expanded GI benefits for Student Veterans.