
Undergraduate Student Resources & Forms
The Polytechnic School Advisors
Advising Home
Undergraduate Students
Graduate Students
Accelerated Master’s Degree Programs
Internships
Meet Your Advisors
How To Guides
Student Resources
Advising FAQ
Follow The Polytechnic School
Follow
Follow
Follow
Visit Us
Sutton Hall Map/Directions Second Floor 6049 S. Backus Mall Mesa, AZ 85212
480-727-1874 [[email protected]]
Current student?
Prospective Student?
Call 480-727-1874 to schedule an appointment.
Hours:
8-5 M-F, including breaks ASU holidays: Closed
Online Student Webinar
Congratulations on your admittance to an online Polytechnic School major! Your next step is to watch the short informational video below to learn about The Polytechnic School (TPS), your resources as an online student, and your next steps to get connected to an academic advisor.
Requesting an override
Override requests must go through the school/college offering the course. To request an override to a course offered through Fulton Schools of Engineering, please visit the link below. The Polytechnic School processes overrides for the following prefixes: ALT, AMT, ATC, EGR, ERM, GIT, IFT, OMT, TEM, TMC. Please note that MAT and ENG courses are offered outside our college.
To find out the college offering your course, visit course details within the class search .
Request an Override
Barrett Honors course requests (492 and 493)
Please complete the Adobe Sign form when requesting to add either the 492 Honors Directed Study or the 493 Honors Thesis to your schedule. Once the Adobe Sign form is completed with all required signatures, the advising team will issue the override and add you to the class. Please fill this form out for the following prefixes only: AMT, ATC, EGR, ERM, GIT, HSE, IFT or TEM.
492 Honors Directed Study
493 Honors Thesis
Independent Study course requests (499)
If you are requesting an independent study course for your major, please read through the link below and fill out the Adobe Sign form. It is best to meet with your academic advisor prior to submitting the request to ensure that the class will apply to your major.
499 Independent Study Form
Sponsor Letter Request Form
If your sponsor has requested a letter from advising, please use the link below to submit that request. Please be as detailed as possible when submitting your request. This will ensure advising provides the correct information without needing any revisions. Please note, some letters require additional information, make sure you have that before submitting the request.
Sponsor Letter Request Form
Late registration
Students are expected to enroll in courses for the upcoming semester during their respective open enrollment period, which is indicated by date on MyASU. The open enrollment period ends on the drop/add deadline; these dates for each term can be viewed on the academic calendar . A student who misses this deadline must request a late registration through their academic advisor. Requests are reviewed on an individual basis; there is no guarantee that a late registration request will be approved, as you are requesting an exception to university policy.
Late add requests will be considered with instructor approval ONLY during the following time frames:
First week of A and B session courses (end of the 5th business day)
Second week of C session courses (end of the 10th business day)
Any late add requests beyond these time frames will not be considered.
Students who wish to request a late registration transaction must follow the instructions listed below.
Complete the enrollment change request form . Include instructor approval documentation discussed in #2 if signatures are not included on the form.
Obtain the instructor’s signature. An email verification of approval from the instructor can be substituted for the instructor signature. Please include the entire email chain for approval purposes.
Students may submit late enrollment change request forms to their academic advisor, or submit all appropriate forms and email approvals to [[email protected]] . Students should allow at least a 24 hour turn-around for review of the request.
Petition guidelines
An Undergraduate Standards Petition Form is required for various circumstances.
All materials included in the submission must be typed. Submit the complete packet to your advisor in order to discuss the petition and rationale (it is suggested you make an appointment with your advisor to do this).
The complete packet is reviewed by the advisor, program chair, and Ira A. Fulton Schools of Engineering Dean’s Office.
Below is only a sampling of common situations in which a petition is needed:
Course Overload An overload petition is required if a student is requesting to enroll in more than the maximum allotted. An appointment is required; schedule an appointment with your advisor . Campus students: Students are able to enroll in 19 credit hours. Online students: Students are able to enroll in up to 9 credits per session, no more than 18 credits per semester
An overload petition is required if a student is requesting to enroll in more than the maximum allotted. An appointment is required; schedule an appointment with your advisor .
Campus students: Students are able to enroll in 19 credit hours.
Online students: Students are able to enroll in up to 9 credits per session, no more than 18 credits per semester
Enroll in a graduate level course for undergraduate level credit *4+1 students do not need to petition to enroll in approved shared courses
*4+1 students do not need to petition to enroll in approved shared courses
Enroll in a course for a third time
Pursue a concurrent degree
Petition Guidelines and Undergraduate Petition Form
Change your major
Schedule an appointment with the program advisors for the program you are interested in changing into if it is a degree offered by The Polytechnic School.
If you are interested in changing into a major outside of The Polytechnic School, please follow the steps on the change of major website.
Frequently requested information
4+1 accelerated bachelor/master’s program
Medical/compassionate withdrawal
Probation Success Plan